

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Enforcement Operations

-->

Scribd

Upload

Search

Explore

Documents
Books - Fiction
Books - Non-fiction
Health & Medicine
Brochures/Catalogs
Government Docs
How-To Guides/Manuals
Magazines/Newspapers
Recipes/Menus
School Work
+ all categories

Featured
Recent

People
Authors
Students
Researchers
Publishers
Government & Nonprofits
Businesses
Musicians
Artists & Designers
Teachers
+ all categories

Most Followed
Popular

Sign Up

|

Log In

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Enforcement Operations

﻿---------~
------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

I

1. INTRODUCTION

A. Purpose of Course

This presentation provides officers with an introduction to the operational enforcement divisions within ICE.

B. Interim Performance Objectives

The objectives for this course are as follows:

1. Identify the ICE mission.

2. Identify the operational enforcement divisions within .

ICE.

3. Discuss the specific areas of focus within each division.

4. Discuss the operational functions 'Within the Detention and Removal Operations Division.

'\

The ICE mission is to prevent acts of terrorism and crime by targeting the people, money, and materials that support terrorist and criminal activities.

D. Operational Enforcement Divisions

The ICE enforcement effort is divided into six. major operational divisions:

1. Office of Investigations - responsible for investigating a, range of issues, including human smuggling; narcotics, weapons and all other contraband smuggling; export enforcement; financial crimes. cyber crime; immigration crime; and human rights violations.

Legacy INS and Customs investigations divisions.

ICE ACADEMY AUGUST. 2004

ENFORCEMENT 'OPERATIONS PAGE 3

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOI

2. Office of Detention and Removal - responsible for promoting public safety and national security by ensuring the departure from the United 'Stares of all removable aliens through the fair enforcement'ofthe nation's immigration law.

3. Office of Air and Marine Operations - responsible for protecting the nation's borders and the Ainencan people from the smuggling ofpeople;narcotics and other contraband. Also responsible for detecting' and deienin:g terrorist activity with an integrated and coordinated air and marine interdiction force.

4. Office of Federal Air Marshal Service (FAMS) - responsible for promoting confidence in our nation's civil a.viation system through the effective deployment of Federal Air Marshals to detect, deter and defeat hostile acts targeting U.S. air carriers, airports, passengers and clews.

s. Offiee,of Federal Protective Service - responsible for policing, securing and ensuring a safe environment in which federal agencies can conduct their business by reducing threats posed againSt the mote than 8,800 federal, facilities nationwide.

6. Office of Intelligence - responsible for the collection, analysis and dissemination of strategic and tactical intelligence data for use by the operaQ~~al el~~.pts of ICE

and the DHS. .','. . "'," '."

Legacy INS division.

Customs Aviation Interdiction Program established by Congress.in 1971 &:: the Marine" program began in 1973.

FAMStransferred to ICE in November 2093,.

~ FPS transferred to ICE from GSA.

Legacy INS and Customs intelligence ;~ divisionS. .'

ICE ACADEMY AUGUST,2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGE 4

----------------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

I D. DEVELOPMENT

A. Operational Divisions and Responsibilities

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the largest investigative ann of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), is responsible for identifying and shutting down vulnerabilities in the nation t s border, economic, transportation andinfrastructure security. These enforcement . responsibilities are divided into six major operational divisions:

1. Office of Investigations a. Mission

The mission of the Office of Investigations is to focus on a broad array of national security, financial and. smuggling violations including illegal arms export, financial crimes, commercial fraud; human trafficking, narcotics smuggling. child pornography/exploitation and immigration fraud. Using their unique legal authorities, ICE Special Agents also conduct investigations aimed at protecting critical infrastructure industries that are vulnerable to sabotage, attack or exploitation.

b. Investigative Divisions

The Office of Investigations has field offices throughout the United States that are supported by four divisions:

1) National Security Investigations Division

TIlls division oversees investigative programs designed to protect our national security by combating ter.rorism and preventing the illegal importation, exportation and transfer of Weapons of Mass Destruction, arms and munitions and critical technology.

WMD's, sons, munltioas and technology criminal investigations.

ICE ACADEMY AUGUST, 2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGES

PARTICIPANT WORKBOO

2) Financial InvestigatioJ;U Division

This division oversees rCE's efforts to investigate financial crimes and to workclosely with the financial community to identify and eliminate potential vulnerabilities in the nation's financial infrastructure .. ICE draws on more than thirty years of expertise to

expand its existing capabilities in an effo~ to better ,

protect America's financial service syste~.:ftom illegM

money laundering, insurance schemes, bulk: c8sh . '

smuggling, jntellectualpropeitydghts and cotiJ.itetfeit goods trafficking and other financial crimes.

3) SmugglingIPublic Safety DiviSion

This division oversees programs designed to identifY, disrupt and dismantle significant organizations that smuggle contraband and humans bito the Unites States~ pose a threat to tbe h~ :;afetjr and rights of ourpeopl~~, threaten our critical infrastructure or defraud the Unlt~,,'

States. .'

4) Investigative Services Division

This division assists and supports investigative ~granlS

and special agents. . " .,

2. OFFICE OF DETENTION AND REMOVAL

a. Mission and Responsibilities

The mission of the Office of Detention and Removal (DRO) is to promote public. safety and national security by ensuring the departure from the United States of all removable aliens tmQugb. the fair and effective emorcement of the nation'slmmigtatioil laws.

Financial fraud, property fights, and counterfeit goods trafficking investigations.

'. '

, ~amplez "Operation

• CO~erstone"

Contraband and human smuggling, identity and benefits fraud, and human rights violations

.. in,:e;stlgations.

, Cyber, undercover, inVestigative support. specw ops, technical support and asset forfeiture services.

ICEAOADEMY AUGUST,2004

ENFORCEMENT OPE~TIONS PAGE 6

j

--------~------------------------ PARTIOPANT~ORKBOOK

The DRO division consists of Deportation officers, Immigration Enforcement Agents, SUpeMSQrY staff and ~pport staff.

Deportation officers are non-uniformed officers, who are inlaw enforcement "covered" positions. Immigration Enforcement Agents are uniformed officers, who are in law enforcement "covered" positions. They are authorized to carry a badge and a Weapon, and haye authority to effect criminal and administrative arrests related to the iNA.

DRO is responsible for the alien from the initiation of removal proceedings until the ultimate removal from the United States. The DRO Division consists of two branches:

1) Removals

2) Detention

Each of these branches has distinctive duties related to the housing. maintenance and removal of the alien from the U.S.

, .

Each branch will be discussed separately in order to facilitate understanding of the overall operation of the Division.

DRO Agents/Officers have authority to make arrests related to the enforcement of the INA and Title SCFR.

h. Removals - Operational Functions

The Removals division performs several different functions in furtherance of the overall mission. 'These functions are as follows:

1) Responsibility for Alien - Once 'an alien is processed by the arresting officers he is handed over to Deportation Officers.

2) Responsibility for Alien's Case File - The officer will oversee the alien's case through the admini.st:ra:tive judicial system until completion.

3) Removal of Alien from U.S. - Upon completion of removal proceeding. the Deportation Officer works with the detention staff to effect final removal from the United States.

\j ICE ACADEMY ''-.,-~ AUGUST,2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGE 7

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOJ.

4) Fugitive Operations - Locate and apprehend aliens with a final order of removal who have failed to appear for their Immigration heating or who have. failed to surrender for removal when ordered to do so by:ICE.

5) Receipt of Foreigg. TravetDocuments for Alien· Many aliens need a travel document (Le. Temporary Passportand/or .. Visa) to return to their homeland. The Deportation Officer gathers any pertinent infonnation related to the alien for a "Travel Document Presentation" •. Deportation OfficerS keep close liaison with Consulates and Embassies to obtain the required documents.

6) Escort Duties - Officers may be required to escort the alien to the foreign country of removal.

7) Other Duties as Assigned - Deportation Officers are often required to write responses to Congressional inquiries, requests for case actions, (such as Stays of Removal), from attorneys and other general public correspondence.

c. Removals - Dockets

Case files for aliens under removal proceedings (otherwise known as A-Files), or whose removal proceedings are completed and are still. of interest to ICE,· ale divided into two categories:

,1) Non-Detained 2) Detained

These case files are assigned to Officers for monitoring and maintenance purposes.

All the cases within each category that are assigned to an Officer are known collectively as a docket.

During the removal proceedings, the case IDe is provided to Field Office Counsel to use as evidence in the removal proceeding before the Immigration Judge. The Officer is still primarily responsible for the case file, even tllcn~gl1 it is J¥>t in hi~ direct.conrro],

ICE ACADEMY AUGUST,2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGE 8

----------------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

l

d. Removals - Non-Detained Dockets'

Non-Detained dockets contain cases relating to aliens that are not physically in ICE custody. In each case, the alien is at liberty because he was granted:

i) <Bond - An alien is allowed to post monetary funds instead of remaining in custody. The money is posted to ensurehe will not abscond during his removal proceedings.

2) Order of Release on Recognizance - An alien is allowed to remain at liberty for duration of removal proceedings.

3) Order of Supervision - An alien is ordered removed but either no country will accept the alien, or ICE was unable to obtain a travel document.

I

4) Extended Volnntary Departure - A form of relief provided by ICE personnel or the Immigration Judge in lieu of removal. The alien is allowed to remain at liberty until his departure'from United States.

Once the Immigration Judge renders a final order of removal (and after all appeals are exhausted of waived), the case file is returned" to

the Officer to whom it is assigned. '

The Officer will then perform. any actions necessary to effect the removal including:

1) Calling in and/or locating, and apprehending the alien who has been served with the Final order.

2) Obtaining a travel do~ument from the appropriate Consulate or Embassy.

3) Assisting travel clerks and detention staff in arranging tickets, personal effects and the itinerary for removal.

It is not unusual to have 3,000-4,000 BODdetained cases assigned to ODe officer

Fu&itive Operations cases worked by DOs and lEAs. ("'Ru Letters". G-S6 fOT appointment and 1-166 for surreader)

ICE ACADEMY AUGUST,2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGE 9

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOl

4) In the case of criminal aliens, escorting them to the foreign country of removal to ensure their return. Once in the foreign country, the alien will be turned over to the local

. authorities.

e. Removals - Detained Dockets

'.'

". .

Detained dockets are cases relating to aliens that are physically in SerViCe average should

,ICE custody for the durationof'their removal proceedings andlor be .. 80 detaiDed cases

until their. removal is effected from theUnited States, . In.each case, .', p'e~, DOlDoeket Clerk

the alien is in custody because: Team.

. 1) Ordered Detained -Alie,p. isineliglble for release.and/er

ordered by an ICE official or the Immigration Judge to remain in Service custody.

2) Bond not Posted - Alien is allowed to post monetary funds instead of remaining in custody, but did not.

Upon incarcerationin a Service facility, the Officer will perform actions necessary to facilitate the removal process:

1) The Officer receives the case file'from the arresting officers (Detention and Removal Operations, Investigations, Border Patrol or Inspections).

1)0 sometimes has to "clean up" the file - issue missing forms, etc.

2) The Officer will review- the case fQr accuracy and completeness. If necessary, the officer will complete paperwork or issue superceding (corrected) charging documents.

3) The Officer then forwanJ,s the file to the Field Office Litigation Unit who places the case on the "Detained Docket" for a hearing. Detained cases are priority over non-

detained cases. '

4) During the hearing process, which may require three or four hearings, the officer ensures that the alien is scheduled and taken to court on time, _._

ICE ACADEMY AUGUST~ 2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGE 10

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

f

5) The Officer wilJ use a periodic "caD-up" system to ensure that the Deportable Alien Control System (covered in section "'0") is properly maintained, and that the case progresses through the removal process

6) During the hearing process, the Officer will work with the Consulates and Embassies to obtain the required travel documents.

7) Once the Immigration Judge renders a tiDal Brder of removal (andlor after all appeals are exhausted or wmedj, the case file is :returned to the Officer to whom it is' assigned. The officer will then work with other DRO staff to arrange a travel itinerary and gather persODaI effects and, if necessary, eseortthe alien to the foreign eountry.r removal

f. Removals - Fugitive Operations

Fugitive Operations involves cases relating to aliens who have a final order of removal,. who are not in ICE custody, and have either failed to appear for their Immigration hearing or failed to report when ordered to do so by ICE. In each case the alien was released from ICE custody because (s)he was granted:

1) Bond - Alien was allowed to post monetary funds instead of remaining in custody. Alien then either failed to appear for their Immigration hearing or failed to surrender for removal vvhen ordered to do so by ICE..

2) Order of Release 0Jl Reeogrrizace- AEi::Im was, ~ed to remain at liberty for dmaIion of Jak\Waifi J1llrJe~md either failed to appear for their Immigratr.~etrfiiil'eQ. to surrender for removal when ordered to do so Dyra.

3} Voluntary Departure with Alternat.e Order of RemovalAlien 'WaS gmnted V!D with an alternate order of removal by _~JudIge m lieu ofremoval; However, alien

, ICE ACADEMY AUGUST,2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS FAGEn

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOl\.

overstayed the period of V ID granted by the IJ and now has a

final order of removal. .. . .

4) Order of SuperVision·. Alien has 'final Order of Removal and was detained, but no countrywould accept the alien or ICE was unable to obtain a travel document. The alien was released on an OSUP and allowed to remain at liberty. Due to a change in circtinistances .iCE is now able to effect the removal of the alien from the United States and ICE bas instructed alien to surrender for removal. However, alien has failed to surrender for removal.

Once an alien has received a final order due to failure to appear for their Immigration heStirlg, has receiVed a :firial order and has fai!ed ' to surrender for removal when instructed by ICE, or has preVioUSly been removed and illegally re-entered the United States in Vi61anori of law, the case is referred to the fugitive operations team for location and apprehension.

The fugitive operations team vvill perfonu any actions necessary to locate and apprehend the fugitive alien (absconder) including:

1) Complete review of A-file and any available system databases for investigative leads.

2) Creation of fugitive operations work folder With Fugitive Operations Worksheet (pOW).

" :,

..• :..,.,~ .

. 3) Follow-up on all investigative leads to include surveillance ; on known addresses and speaking with employers, friends. family and associates when there is no jeopardy ofalien being tipped off as to the teams actions or intentions.

4) Once the alien has been located, the team will-fonuulate a plan to apprehend the alien and then execute that }:JIm and take the alien into custody under the authoritY Dfllie Warrant of Removal (1-205).

ICE ACADEMY AUGUST, 2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS

. PAGE 12

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

g. Docket Clerks

Docket Clerks are non-uniform/non-officer positions. They are responsible for all administrative activity involved in docket management, including A-File management, drafting and filing related forms, and inputting information. into the related ICE databases, (Primarily the Deportable Alien Control System, DACS). DACS is a national computer system used to document and track aD alien cases that are in removal proceedings.

In addition, DOcket clerks perform travel management functions for the alien and escorting ICE officers.

h. Detention - Organization and Mission

The Detention division consists of Imniigration Enforcement Agents (lEA). supervisory staff and support staff. .

'',

!

/

/

Immigration Enforcement Agents are . uniformed officers, who are in law enforcement "covered" positions. They are authorized to carry a badge and a weapon, and have authority to effect arrests -.

The mission of the Detention Division is multi-faceted:

1) To oversee and ensure the health, safety and security of aliens whUe they are detained in ICE custody during removal proceedings.

2) To locate and process aliens incarcerated in State and Federal correctional facilities.

3) To provide transportation for incarcerated aliens during proceedings.

4) To escort aliens to the foreign country of removal/departure.

ICE ACADEMY' AUGUST, lOM

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGE 13

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

)

Aliens being detained and escorted represent a wide variety of individuals from countries around the world that are subject to removal. The detained population contains .a, significant number of aliens of criminal, immoral, narcotic, subversive and/or defective mental backgrounds who require special handling, oversight and , treatment.

i. Detention - Operation~I.Fnnctions .

The Detention Division performs a number. of duties related to their mission. These functions ·are:,., , '.

1) Security of Detainees and Service FacilitieS - Officers are stationed within the ICE.facilities.toenSure the safety, well being and order of the detainees and the facility. This includes providiilg full-service eounseling of detainees on

Service-related statutes, pO~cy and procedure. .

2) Alien Processing.;- The agent is required to conduct tasks related to the admission and release of detainees from ICE and contract detention facilities ..

3) Process Serving - The IEA is responsible for executing .

Orders of Removal. Warrants of Arrest, Warrants of Removal and Bond Letters to aliens initiiilly ptocessedby Detention and Removal Operations, IDvesfigatioDS, Border Patrol or Inspections, that are located in ICE and contract detention facilities.

4) Court Security - The lEA will serve as a court security officer for Immigration court proceedings.

"

S) Transportation - The IEA accepts custody of aliens from Investigations, Border Patrol, Inspections and other ICE agents/officers for transport to the ICE detention facility, once the alien is processed for a removal proceeding and ordered detained.

ICEACA~EMY . AUGUST,2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGEi4

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

)

The lEA also receives aliens from federal, state and local law enforcement agencies. These aliens were processed for removal by ICE officers while they were incarcerated for criminal offenses. Once the alien has finished serving his/her sentence, ICE is notified that the alien is to be released from' custody. The IEA is then dispatched to transport the alien to the ICE detention facility for the remainder of time the alien is in removal proceedings or until a subsequent custody determination is made (i,e, released on bond, released on recognizance).

6) ACAP Duties - Location and removal of criminal aliens arrested or incarcerated by other federal, state, or local law enforcement agencies is part of the REACTIVE mission in criminal alien investigations.

Presently, the Institutionsl Removal Program (IRP) is a major initiative under the ICE criminal alien program.

The IRP is a cooperative effort ofICE, EOIR, and correctional agencies (State and Federal). The 1RP provides for removal proceedings to begin for criminal aliens while' they are still serving their sentence. The IR.P process allows for, in many cases, the immediate removal of an alien (with an Order of Removal) upon completion of the alien's sentence.

,

I .

. 7) Escort Duties Officers are required to escort the alien from the ICE detention facility to the Immigration court, medical facilities, consulates, places of employment and, on occasion, to the foreign country of removal.

8) Other Duties as Assigned - lEAs are often required to make travel arrangements for alien removal. fingerprint and photograph detainees and conduct other functions related to the mission of the division.

ICE ACADEMY _,/ AUGUST,2oo4

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGElS

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

3. Office of Air and. Marine Ope~tlons

a. Mission

The mission of the Office of Ail" and MarID~ Operations (AMO)"is ,to protect the American people and ~ritica.l ~cture by using an integrated and coordinated air and marine force to deter,

. . . interdict "and investigate acts of terrorism and smuggling arising

.from tile unlawful pl()vementof pepple/and goods across .the ." b~rs of the UnitedStates, A,MO also provides significant . aViation and marine support for the counter-terrorism efforts of many other Imy enforcementagencies,

b. AMO Dk1sioDS

AMO is comprised of'two divisions:

1) Air Operations Division - Conducts air operations to deter, detect, interdict and investigate terrorist and criminal activity. Air Operations utilizes, a number of fixed and rotary wing aircraft to accomplish, tll~ir missiont

2) M~ Operations Division - Conducts marine operations on the open seas to deter, detect, interdict and investigate terrorist and criminal ~vity, Marine Operations utilizes various types of marine watercraft to accomplish.thelr mission and coordb;la,te th~ir law enforcement efforts in conjunction with the ~ Operations Division.

4. Office of Federal Air MarshalService

a. Mission

The mission of the Federal Air Marshal Service is to be responsible for and protect air security and promote public cOnfidence in otiHiation's civil avia1iori syS'teinThrougnthe "

."" ..

ICE ACAnEMY AUGUST, 2004

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGE 16

P ARTICIP ANT WORKBOOK

)

effective deployment ofFederaI Air Marshals in order to detect. deter and defeat hostile acts targeting lJ.S. air carriers, airports, passengers and crews.

5. Office of Federal Protective Sen-ice

a. Mission

The mission of the Federal Protective Service (FPS) is to provide law enforcement and security services to over one' million tenants and daily visitors to all federally owned and leased facilities nationwide. FPS focuses directly on the interior security of the nation and the reduction of crimes and potential threats to federal facilities throughout the nation.

b. FPS Divisions

FPS is comprised of two enforcement divisions:

\ j

/

J

I

1) . Criminal Investigative Division - Conducts investigations

into terrorist and criminal activity committed on federal property.

2) Uniformed Patrol Division - Provides security to federal buildings and patrols federal buildings and property to deter, detect and interdict terrorist and criminal activity.

6. Offiee of Intelligence

a, Mission

The mission of the Office of Intelligence is to collect. analyze and exploit information relating to- terrorists and their organizations, drug and contraband smuggling, human trafficking. criminal acts and enterprises, illicit trading of critical technology and Weapons of Mass Destruction, money laundering and financial crimes and threats to government facilities and personnel. The result is intelligence that supports all ICE operational units and managers in their mission to protect the national security of the United States.

ICE ACADEMY AUGUST,70.D4

ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS PAGE 17

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

" J

Ill. SUMMARY REVIEW QUESTIONS

I. What is the mission onCE?

2. What two types of arrests atec<:;riducted. by ICE!pRQ perS~~il?

3. What are the 4 divisions within the Office of Investigations?

. '

4. Which division within the Office of Investigations is responsible for benefits and document

fraud and human trafficking? .

; .. '

5. Which Branch within DRO is responsible for the Alien Criminal Appreheasion Program (ACAP)?" .

6. What is the 'mission of the' Office of Detention and Removal?

J ;".' •• •• i .'

ICE AclDEMY . AUGUST,2004 ;

ENFORCEMENT OP~TIONS P~GE18

-----------~------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

) 7. 'What is a docket?

8. 'What are the two :tYPes of removal dockets? Differentiate between the two.

9. 'What is the Deportable Alien Control System (DACS)?

) '10. 'What is the multi-faceted mission oftbe Detention Division?

/ J

ICE ACADEMY \j AUGUST,2004

ENFORCEME1'o'T OPERATIONS PAGE 19

Leave a Comment

Comment must not be empty.
You must be logged in to leave a comment.

Submit
Characters: ...

Comment must not be empty.
You must be logged in to leave a comment.

Submit
Characters: ...

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Download or Print

851 Reads

Info and Rating

Category: Government Docs
Rating:

Upload Date: 11/01/2009
Copyright: Attribution Non-commercial
Tags:

ice
immigration
FOIA
dhs
immigration and customs enforcement
department of homeland security
( more tags )

ice
immigration
FOIA
dhs
immigration and customs enforcement
department of homeland security
287g
287(g)
immigration enforcement
immigration enforcementice
( fewer )
Flag document for inapproriate content

This is a private document.

Uploaded by
J Cox

Follow

Download

Embed Doc

Copy Link

Add To Collection

Comments

Readcast

Share

×

Tweet

Share on Scribd:
Readcast

Search
TIP Press Ctrl-F ⌘F to quickly search anywhere in the document.

Search
Search History:

Searching...

Result 00 of 00
00 results for result for

p.

More from This User

Related Documents

More From This User

3 p.
HICA v. Alabama - Supplemental Briefing Order (11th Cir. June 25, 2...

2 p.
GLAHR v. Georgia - Supplemental Briefing Order (11th Cir. June 25, ...

12 p.
Alabama's Motion to Vacate Injunction of HB56 § 8 Pending Appeal (5...

9 p.
158 - Joint Stip Re Rental Ban

37 p.
Alabama's Motion to Vacate Injunction of HB56 § 30 Pending Appeal (...

61 p.
Alabama's HB658, amending HB56

55 p.
SB28 - Beason special session immigration bill (as introduced)

55 p.
HB20 - Hammon special session immigration bill (as introduced)

57 p.
HB658 as Passed by Senate Unofficial)

51 p.
Senator Beason's Proposed Senate Floor Substitute to HB658 (as of 5...

2 p.
Faith Leaders letter to Alabama Senator Scott Beason (5/10/12)

64 p.
Senator Beason's Proposed Senate Floor Substitute to HB658 (as of 5...

4 p.
DOJ Letter to AL State Superintendent (5/1/12)

1 p.
Letter from Mississippi Law Enforcement re Anti-Immigrant Bill (3/2...

2 p.
Letter from Mississippi Business Groups re Anti-Immigrant Bill (3/2...

1 p.
Letter from Mississippi Economic Council re Anti-Immigrant Bill (3/...

3 p.
ICE Policy re Facilitating the Return to the U.S. of Certain Lawful...

10 p.
DOJ OLC Memo re Handling of INS Warrants of Deportation in Relation...

3 p.
Eleventh Circuit enjoins Sections 27 & 30 of Alabama's HB56 pending...

3 p.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement - Detainer Form (October 2011)

3 p.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement - Detainer Form (June 2011)

7 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Purchasing Dep't re HB5...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Tax Collector re HB56 (...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Water Dep't re HB56 (10...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Waste Control & Recycli...

Related

6 p.
ICE Fact Sheet - FY2008 Budget (12/28/07)

From J Cox

4 p.
ICE Annual Report - Immigration Enforcement Actions: 2008 (July 2009)

From J Cox

28 p.
ICE Immigration Enforcement Strategy and Highlights (Jan. 2006)
From J Cox

24 p.
Declaration of Daniel Ragsdale on SB 1070
Declaration of Daniel Ragsdale on SB 1070, filed with the federal suit agains...
From TucsonSentinel

17 p.
ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alien Encounters
For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scri...
From J Cox

6 p.
ICE Fact Sheet - FY2010 Budget (11/5/09)

From J Cox

28 p.
ICE Secure Communities: Strategic Plan (7/21/09)
ICE Secure Communities: A Comprehensive Plan to Identify and Remove Criminal ...
From J Cox

4 p.
Enforcement Ar 2009
From MyFoxPhoenix

4 p.
Immigration Enforcement Actions for 2009
Each year, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) undertakes immigration e...
From carlosegalindo

26 p.
T5 B9 Alien Absconder Initiative Fdr- Commission Emails- Notes- Mem...
From 911DocumentArchive

45 p.
ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alternate Orders of Removal
For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scri...
From J Cox

55 p.
U.S. v. Arizona - Exh 4 to Motion for Preliminary Injunction - Decl...
From Legal Insurrection

6 p.
ICE Guidance Memo - Transportation, Detention & Processing Requirem...
From J Cox

4 p.
ICE Fact Sheet - FY2007 Budget (2/5/06)

From J Cox

23 p.
DHS OIG - Removals Involving Parents of USC Children

From J Cox

12 p.
T5 B41 Notes 6-26-03 to 9-2-03 1 of 4 Fdr- Tab 6- 7-15-03 MFR and Q...

From 911DocumentArchive

23 p.
100,000 Deportations
From aughra hernandez

629 p.
ICE DRO Detention and Deportation Officer's Field Manual
From J Cox

24 p.
CRS - Immigration-Related Detention: Current Legislative Issues (Ja...

From J Cox

Use your Facebook login and see what your friends are reading and sharing.

Other login options Login with Facebook

Signup
I don't have a Facebook account

email address (required)

create username (required)

password (required)

Send me the Scribd Newsletter, and occasional account related communications.

Sign Up
Privacy policy

You will receive email notifications regarding your account activity. You can manage these notifications in your account settings.
We promise to respect your privacy.

Why Sign up?

1. Discover and Connect

With people of similar interests

2. Publish Your Documents

Quickly and easily

3. Share Your Reading Interest

On Scribd and social sites like Facebook and Twitter

Already have a Scribd account?

email address or username

password

Log In

Trouble logging in?

Login Successful
Now bringing you back...

Reset Your Password

« Back to Login

Please enter your email address below to reset your password. We will send you an email with instructions on how to continue.

Email Address:

You need to provide a login for this account as well.

Login

Submit

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Enforcement Operations
J Cox
File Types Available:  PDF, TXT
For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Login with Facebook

Use my Scribd Login
Skip Login

email address or username

password

Log In

Trouble logging in?

Upload

Search

Follow Us!
scribd.com/scribd
twitter.com/scribd
facebook.com/scribd
About
Press
Blog
Partners
Scribd 101
Web Stuff
Support
FAQ
Developers / API
Jobs
Terms
Copyright
Privacy

Copyright © 2012 Scribd Inc.
Language:

Choose the language in which you want to experience Scribd:
English
Español
Português

