

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Detainee Restraint & Transport | PDF

Skip to main content

Open navigation menu

Close suggestions Search
Search

en Change Language , English

Upload

Sign in

Sign in

0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 17 views 24 pages

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Detainee Restraint & Transport

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Uploaded by J Cox

AI-enhanced title

Copyright
© Attribution Non-Commercial (BY-NC)
We take content rights seriously. If you suspect this is your content, claim it here .

Available Formats
Download as PDF or read online on Scribd

Download

Save Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Detainee Restrai... For Later

Share

0% 0% found this document useful, Mark this document as useful

0% 0% found this document not useful, Mark this document as not useful

Print

Embed

Report

0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 17 views 24 pages

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Detainee Restraint & Transport

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Uploaded by J Cox

AI-enhanced title

Copyright
© Attribution Non-Commercial (BY-NC)
We take content rights seriously. If you suspect this is your content, claim it here .

Available Formats
Download as PDF or read online on Scribd

Go to previous items

Download

Save Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Detainee Restrai... For Later

Share

0% 0% found this document useful, Mark this document as useful

0% 0% found this document not useful, Mark this document as not useful

Print

Embed

Report
Go to next items

Download

Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Detainee Restrai... For Later

Share

More options

Fullscreen
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT
ACADEMY

287(g)

U.S. Immigration
and Customs
Enforcement

‘This document may contain sensitive law enforcement information that is exempt
from release under Exemption 7 of the Freedom of information Act. The ICE
Acaclemy Freedom of Information Act Coordinator must be consulted before

any of the information in this document is released.

LESSON PLAN

DETAINEE RESTRAINT & TRANSPORT

November/2007
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

Lesson Plan Overview
[Course [ICE Enforcement and Detention Standards-Detainee
Restraint and Transport
Course Purpose This course will detail the proper procedures for using restraints and

escorting subjects in Service custody according to the ICE
Enforcement Standard.

Field Performance

Given enforcement-Telated situations, participants will be able to

Objective identify key elements of detention restraint and transport, according
to ICE policies and procedures.
Tnterim (Training) 1. Wdentify the ICE factors leading to the proper us of restraints
Performance Objectives | 2. Identify the key factors that necessitate a high-risk transport.
| 3. Identify the key elements of the appropriate ICE Detention
Standards, as it relates to ICE Detention Activities.
4. Identify ICE policy on transportation of females and juveniles,
[ errecone Node ‘One hour dassroom lecture
| Training Aids ‘Video, Handoufts, waist chains and leg shackles.
Student Materialy7 Participant Workbook, including docaments contained in workbook
| References ‘Appendix, ICE Detention and Enforcement Standards
Title 8, USC, Section 1357 (section 287, INA), and Title 8, Code of
Federal Regulations, Section 287 (8 CFR 287).
Instructional Equipment | Overhead Projector, Handouts, Chalkboard
I
ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT

‘DECEMBER, 2007

PAGEL
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

owerpoint Presentation Slides
li. Title
p. Field Performance Objective
. Interim Performance Objectives
4. Safety
ls. Safety (con’t)
|b. High Risk Transport
”. Preparation
. Preparation (con’t)
19. Restraint Devices
10. Restraint Devices (con't)
111. Standard II. C.
112. Transport Vehicles
113. Considerations
4, Juveniles
[I5. PATS
6. The End

ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT
‘DECEMBER, 2007 PaGE2
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

1. INTRODUCTION
A. Purpose of Course

‘Transporting detainees (criminal or otherwise) presents
potentially serious safety problems for ICE personnel.

Criminal aliens who face deportation or inadmissibility
from the United States also may face further
prosecution or personal threats for failed criminal.
enterprises in their home country.

Detainees may carry serious contagious diseases, may
‘be psychopathic or psychotic or have other serious
mental illness.

Detainees may have gang ties.

Depriving detainees of their personal freedom and
‘impending threat of forcible removal from the United
States may cause them to do something that they
otherwise would not do.

B. Objectives
The objectives for this course are as follows:

1. Identify the ICE factors leading to the proper us of
restraints.
2. Identify the key factors that necessitate a high-risk

transport.
3. Identify the key elements of the appropriate ICE
Detention Standards, as it relates to ICE Detention,
Activities.

4. Identify ICE policy on transportation of females and
juveniles.

2, SAFETY CONSIDERATIONS

Officers should review all sources of information
available to lear as much as possible about a detainee
in their charge.

ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT.
DECEMBER, 2007 PAGES
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

1. Always use universal precautions, officers should
always handle detainees in a manner that protects
the officers and detainees from bodily harm, and
prevent escape.

2. Forpersonal safety, and safety of other officers and
detainees, a complete and thorough search of all
detainees must be performed including:

1) the detainees and their clothing,

2) the detainees property.

3) the transport vehicle prior to and after transport.
Even if another officer has searched the detainee,
the transporting officers should perform their own
search.

Any contraband or weapons found during any
search should be documented and turned over for
proper disposition.

3, The time and method of transport should remain,
confidential.

4, Detainees should not have prior notification of
‘transportation arrangements, and should not be
pemnitted the opportunity to communicate with
associates or family, but can consult with an
attorney or consulate.

3. HIGH RISK TRANSPORT

‘Thete are specific reasons why some detainees
should be regarded as a “high risk.”

1. Escape risk
2. Gang membership/affiliation
3. Drug trafficker/dealer

4, Has record of or has exhibited violent behavior.

ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT
‘DECEMBER, 2007 PAGE4
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

5. Mentally ill/ Suicide risk
6. Contagious disease
7. Change in behavior during “low risk” transport.

4. PREPARATION

Itis the responsibility of managers, supervisors, and
‘officers to convey all known information of escape
risks, criminal background or involvement, violence or
‘medical indications to transporting officers.

The officers conducting the transport should:
1. Review detainee A-file for prior history. °
2. Search detainee.

3. Search detainee’s property.

4, Talkto the detainee to determine state of mind and
attitude.

5. Use proper restraint devices and insure that they are
properly applied.

6. Always perform a vehicle safety inspection prior to
every transport.

1) Gas

2) Oi

3) Credit card

4) tire pressure

5) lights

8) radio

7) emergency equipment

‘Thoroughly search the vehicle interior both prior to

and after each transport.
Check anticipated route, have alternate plan
available.

ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT

‘DECEMBER, 2007 PAGES
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

8) have proper assistance, support or backup as
required.

5, RESTRAINT DEVICES

Only ICE approved restraining devices issued by
supervisors or managers will be used to restrain a
detainee prior to transport.

Restraint devices approved by ICE for transport
purposes include handcufis, (including flex cuffs), leg
irons, waist chains and security black boxes, knee straps,
leg weights.

‘The use of ICE approved waist chains, leg irons and
handcuffs are for transportation purposes only, and only
applied in a custodial environment.

Only the amount of restraint needed to ensure the safety
of the officer, the detainee, and the public and/or prevent
escape shall be employed.

‘No gag is to be placed in or over a detainee’s mouth or
nose, nor shall any restriction be placed upon the person
‘that shall in any way impair a person’s ability to breathe.

Officers are not to attempt to restrain a detainee without
the necessary assistance from at least one other officer.

Follow these guidelines:

ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT
DECEMBER, 2007 PAGES
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

Individuals who have demonstrated violent behavior or
criminal behavior or criminal activity, or a strong.
likelihood of escape shall be restrained while being
transported as well as at any other time in custody
when held in an area that is not secure, including
vehicles and buildings.

‘No detainee shall be handcuffed to any part of a vehicle
or other conveyance at any time.

‘No detainee shall be handcuffed or restrained and left
unattended by an immigration officer.

6. STANDARD III. C.

Standard ITT C. is a provision contained in ICE’s USE
OF RESTRAINTS policy that allows the officers
conducting the detainee transport to make their own
determination on the types and amount of restraints to
be provided.

‘This determination is virtually unlimited but the
officers’ determination must be based on articulable
facts.

Example: If officers determines that conditions warrant
the use of restraints for members of a family unit,
females, or juveniles, the officers must be able to
articulate the conditions which require the restraints.

Also, if officers determine that a restrained detainee is
being exposed to unnecessary public display, they may
remove restraints based upon articulable facts.

The following are ICE approved restraint Classification
Chart.

ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT
DECEMBER, 2007 PAGE
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

Group Descriptors Restraints Required

ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT,
‘DECEMBER, 2007 PAGES
7. TRANSPORT VEHICLES

1) Van — Separate detainees of different
classifications, males and females, criminal and
xnon-criminals, juveniles and adults, family, elderly,
sick.

2) Sedan - Place detainee in rear seat opposite the
driver.

3) Bus
4) Detainee must wear a seatbelt.
CONSIDERATIONS DURING TRANSPORT

1) The officers must know the route of travel and have
at least one alternate route.

2) Officers must be familiar with the routes so they
can modify their plans on short notice.

3) Officers should anticipate problems and be
prepared to handle them. They should constantly
bbe aware of their surroundings and what is
happening around them.

4) Officers should know the locations of sources of
assistance along these routes such as police,
hospitals and fire departments.

5) Officers should not take a predictable route of
travel

6) Officers should avoid areas that the detainee is
familiar with.

7) Officers should observe ané listen to the detainees
in the vehicle.

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

ICE ACADEMY

DECEMBER, 2007

ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT

PAGES
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

9. JUVENILES

1) Juveniles will not be transported with adults,
except:

a. Atiinitial arrest and transport to ICE office.
‘>. When separate transportation would be
impractical or unavailable.

2) Juveniles should not be restrained unless:

a. Have shown or threatened violent behavior

». Have a history of criminal activity

¢. There is likelihood the juvenile will attempt to
escape

3) Juveniles covered in detail in course titled “Juvenile
Processing”.

10. TRANSPORTING FEMALE DETAINEES

1) When both male and female juveniles are being
transported there will be at least 1 male and 1
female escort officer.

2) When a female detainee is being transported should
be I female escort officer. (Ifa female escort
officer is unavailable, the male escort officer(s) will
call-in the mileage, location and time).

11. JUSTICE PRISONER AND ALIEN
‘TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM (JPATS)

3) All detainees will be delivered to JPATS with
‘handcuffs and leg irons applied.

Restraints will not be removed, but will be exchanged for
others provided by aircrew.

ICE ACADEMY ICE DETAINEE RESTRAINT AND TRANSPORT
‘DECEMBER, 2007 Pace 10
Enforcement Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens: Page-3-
Detention and Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; January 2006

L

ENFORCEMENT STANDARD

ESCORTS
PURPOSE:

This policy establishes guidelines for escorting persons detained under the authority of fue
Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) by Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
personnel. Previously issued DHS, and legacy Immigration and Naruralization Service
(INS), policy and guidelines on this subject are superseded by this policy, except the legacy
INS Detention Standards dated September 20, 2000.

This policy applies to all DHS persomne! who apprehend, take into custody, transport ot
otherwise detain persons, with or without warrant, as authorized in the INA, es amended and
delineated in Title 8, Code of Federal Regulations (C-F.R.) while conducting Detention and
Removal Activities.

AUTHORITY:

‘Title 8, United States Code, Section 1357 (INA §287), and Title 8, CFR, Section 287 (8
CER. § 287).

POLICYSTANDARD:
It shall be DHS policy that:

‘A. All detainees in DHS custody shall be escorted in a manner that is safe, secure, humane,
‘and professional.

B, All detainees will be escorted in accomdance with classifications and procedures found
within this standard. No detainee will be transported for any purpose without an
assessment perfumed in accordance with the Use of Restreints standard,

C. When escorting detainees, especially unaccompanied detainees of the opposite sex or
Juveniles, in DHS vehicles, all officers shell maintain regular radio and cellular
telephonic communication with other DHS personnel, insofar as technologically possible
and resources allow. Unaccompenied juveniles should not be transported in vehicles with
detained adults except: (1) when being tansported ftom the place of arrest ot
apprebension to « DHS office, or (2) where separate tansportation would be
impracticable. Where exception number ore does not azply and separate transportation
is impracticable, unaccompanied juveniles shall be separated from adult detainees during
transportation by vehicle. Officers shall take necessary precautions for the protection of
the well being of such juveniles when tansponed with adults,

D, No detaines shall be transported without the assigned officer conducting hivher own
search of the detainee’s person, except when exigent circumstances pose a safety hazird
or danger to the officer, detainee or public. In the latter case, a search shall be conducted,
Page-4-

Enforcement Standard Pertaining to the Bscorting of Ali

Detention and Deportation Officer Field Mariual Update; January 2006
2s soon as practicable. A pat down search shill be the minimum search conducted. This
includes officer-to-officer transfers, as well as tensfers from an institution.

E, Regardless of the means of transportation, no baggage, luggage or parcel shall be
transported in a manner making it accestible by any detainee tnless the {tem has been
thoroughly searched by the officer transporting the detainee, except when exigent
circumstances pose a safety hazard or danger to the officer, detainee or public. Inthe
Intter case, a search shall be conducted as soon as practicable.

F, The passenger section of all empty DHS vehioles and immediate confinement areas shall
bbe searched prior to, as well as following, each escort to ensure that no Weepons or
contraband have been hidden or left behind.

IV. RESPONSIBILITIES:

A DHS sal be response er ening ad poidingaprove tins oro yall
officers escorting detainees.

B, Managers and supervisors are responsible for determining the need for, and number of,
escorts required for any detainee based on the classification officer’s recommendation in
accordance with this standard and its classification system.

C. It is the responsibility of supervisors and officers to convey all known information of
escape risks, criminal background or involvement, potential threat to national security,
‘Violence, or medical indications to escorting officers.

D, Escorting officers have the responsibility to determine the need and level of restraints
used at any time while escorting 2 detainee, Such determination shall be based on an
articulated reason(s).

Y, DEFINITIONS: :
© Adult~ ‘Amal r fale pron believed tobe 1 yea of age role.

© Classification Officer — A DHS officer designated by a supervisor to determine the escort
classification of a detainee while performing Detention and Reinoval activities.
‘+ Contraband ~ Any item possessed by a detainee that is prohibited by the DHS or by law.

© Detainee ~ Any person, regardless of citizenship or nationality, under arrest, detained,
restrained, escorted, or confined by DHS or any other law enforcement agency.

+ Escape Risk— Any detainee who, in the belief of s DHS officer, may attempt escepe from
DHS custody if not otherwise prevented. An individual who will actively seek
opportunites to escape from DHS custody.

+ Baeart—To tanapor or othétwise ove any prion detined under the immigration laws
Of the United States (8 U.S.C. § 1101 [Link].).
Enforcement Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens: Page -5~
“ Detention end Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; Janusy 2006

‘> Immediate Relative — A person being one of the following to a detainee: spouse, parent,
grandparem, child, sibling, sunt, uncle, o egal guardian. When applied to a juvenile, the
immediate relative must be an adult

* Juvenile— A person known or reasonably believed not to have seached his/her 18%
bithday.

‘+ Medical Professional - A licensed doctor, nurse practitioner, technician, or aide trained to
treat, provide care, administer medication, or perform services specific to the medical
needs of the person being escoried.

* Officer — Any officer or agent employed by DHS

+ Patdowm Search — An examination in which an offices’s hands briefly make contact with
a detainee’s body and clothing in order to detect and remove contraband and/or weapons.

© Unaccompanied Female~A female not in the company of an immediate relative,
© Unaccompanied Juvenile ~ A juvenile notin the company of an adult immediate relative,

‘+ Weapon — Any object, iter, or device that may be used to cause physical injury,
{incapacitate or diminish capability, temporarily or permanently.

Note: these definitions are only for purposes of this Enforcement Standard.

PROCEDURES:

‘When transported, detainees shall be restrained in accordance with the Enforcement Standard
onthe Use of Restraints and when restrained, placed in seatbelts (when practicable).
Depending upon the risk classification of the detainees, duration of travel, and destination,
consideration may be given to the use of additional DHS approved restrainis.

recognized that there may be unforeseen, unusual situations or emergencies where an
insufficient number of officers are available to mect the staffing guidelines provided below.
Where circumstances indicate a greater safety or escape risk, the supervisor will always
‘exercise discretion in favor of mote caution and greater supervision of escorted aliens. Inno
case should a supervisor subject an officer or the public to undue risk. The supervisor may
seek to postpone a particular escort duty in order to penmit an appropriate number of officers
to be available for an assignment. However, the final determination in these circumstances
‘will not be made lower than the level of an Assistant Field Office Director. Under nommal
circumstances, apply the procedures below:
Enforcement Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens:
‘Detention end Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; January 2006

Page -6-

BB, Moverent of detainees via [Link] charter bus: All applicable Department of
‘Transportation laws, rules and regulations will be observed, especially relating to the
number of hours a driver may be on duty and rest breaks, In addition to these
requirements the following procedures will also be applied:

C, Escorting detainees on Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System (PATS)
Airorafi: Detainees transported on JPATS aircrafi (and vehicles) are subject fo the
Enforseniont Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens: Page-7-
Detention and Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; Fanuary 200
policies and stipulations found in the JPATS Prisoner Transportation Manual: Officess

‘should consult that reference for instructions regarding the use of restraints and escorts on
IPATS aircraft,

D. Escorting detainees on commercial aircraft:

1. Regulations: Personne! assigned to escort detainees shall be familiar with,
and strictly observe, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA)
regulations regarding carrying weapons and transporting prisoners on
commercial flights. See 49 C-F.R, §1544.219 and 1544.21. Note that the
‘TSA regulation on transporting prisoners does not apply to the escort of
non-violent DHS detainees, See 14 CFR. §1544.221(@)3).
Enforcement Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens: Page - 8~
Detention and Deportetion Officer Field Manual Update; January 2006

a. ESCORT DETERMINATION CHART

I

(Class Deseriptors Minimum Number of scons Required
Enforcement Standard Peraining to the Escorting of Aliens:
‘Detention and Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; Jamuary 2006

b. ESCORT THREAT ASSESSMENT:

Page -9-
Enforcement Stancard Pertaining to the Hscorting of Aliens: Pege-10-
‘Detention and Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; Jansery 2006

Escort Threat Assessment
For Use When Determining Need For Escorts When Transposting Vie Commerciat Air Cartier

ALIENNAME: at
Date of Birks (Cauny of Camp:
FieldSub Office:

Comment:

Drintad Name and Tile of Auoriaing Official Signatare of Ruboaing Ofte Dae
Enforcement Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens: Page - 11
Detention and Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; January 2006
Enforeement Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens:
Detention and Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; Jamary 2006

Pege-12-
Enforcement Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens: Page -13-
Detention and Deportation Officer Field Manual Update; January 2006

E. Juveniles: All juveniles must be transported in accordance with state and federal laws
governing the use of child safety restraints.

Eso

1. Consistent with the ICE DRO medicel policies, and as clinically indicated,
‘a medica! professional shall escort a detainee with a rainimum of two DHS
‘officers, During transport, the medical escort Will sit as elose to the
detainee and DHS officer(s) as possible, At no zime will the medical
escort assume security responsibilities for the detainee while inthe air or
onthe ground. Additionally, only a medical professional for the treatment
of diagnosed illnesses shall provide prescription medication, Detainees
shall not be medicated solely to facilitate transpor, unless a medical
professional from the U. 8. Public Health Service, Division of
Immigration Health Services (PHS) determines that they present a danger
10 themselves or to others. Disposition of the medication and related
‘equipment is the responsibility of the medical escort.

2. Inall cases the detainee shall be accompanied by up-to-date copies of
his/her medical records, which shall be carried in 2 sealed envelope or
folder, clearly marked “Medical Records; to be opened by authorized
medical personne! only.” Medice! supplies and medication sufficiect for
‘the duration of the trip, plus at least three days shell accompany the
detainee.

3, Donot transport detainees who have not been medically screened on
commercial aircraft. Those transported on JPATS are subject 10
stipulations found in the JPATS Prisoner Transport Manval.

4, PHS is to be the first and only medical authority contacted when
determining the need, and coordinating the efforts, for a medical escort.
In the event a determination is made to conduct 2 medical escor, PHS will
provide the “medical professional”, either through the use of PHS
‘Enforcement Standard Pertaining to the Escorting of Aliens: Page -14-
Detention and Deporiation Officer Field Mamuel Update; Jamunry 2006
personnel or contract service provider. Conducting # medical escort
‘without PHS provided services is not authorized,

G. Médicel Precautions: ifficers should be alert for symptoms such as coughing, fever,
sweating and emaciation, in adition to obviously open wounds or blesding. Ifan officer
suspects that an alien may be infected with a contagious disease, the following
precaustions should be taken:

4, ‘Trnéport the alien ina separste vehicle from other aliens.

2. Place a suigical mask on the tien, (PHS authorities have advised that a
surgical mask is considered adequate for these purposes. "A HEPA mask is
not necessary.)

3. Seat the alien in the rear of the vehicle next to an open window if possible,
‘to provide as much ventilation as possible.

oond=
Comparison of 2006 Revised Escort Polit__.1d Escort Policy from 2002

‘aa Polo ‘WEP olor ane
Twrghout, Throughout —__[Areerenes to, Sve, and espace ties have beon replaced orf OHS, ICE and reopoctve ties.
Thought Trroughout [changed rteences "FAA eguntons to ree cure "TSA" regulations

MPoteystondand | [Link] [Language asteao erie thal standart consent wh te engvage the Flot setement agreement rer he

"Fanaparalon of uraosompante wentes,
Iv. ReponsbiesC] 1, Responses © = [Link] (eat atonal eciy.*
[Link] [Link] _oafned“Oncnrfo ensue iengraton Enrcament Agere ar represented

[Link].A | Vi. Proceduroe A [Modified ‘nileage reteronce ta nude he pirage“..t both tertng and ending locaton."
‘Vi. Procedures A (2)| Vi. Proceduras.A(2) |Add plvase (Le. tine that would normally avecage tree hours or foge)."in ender to etary frm ong stance or tine,

‘Vi Procedures 8 (2)|Vi- Procedures (2) | Replaced" with "nd ao that socio read”. shall have rao and clu telehone.
afernce to focal VR runs wes abicken kom tie eacton,

Vi, Provedures B (2a), [Adod reference to follow exotng tine and county-speci restricions as publehed onthe DRO, Travel Document Uni, wob page,
eowsootion | V1 Procedures 0 (2}() iti contained win tex of 2002 pole, hs Yam ls now Fated Independent for emphasis

‘Vi Procedures D (3)] VI. Procedures © (3) [Added [Link] the dotange being escorted.” (o onsure tat tho
[tho "Group Descriptor” chart was renamed th

[The tte of "Group" was changed to caw tie of "Cass".

moxie Class 2 and 3 to alow or» commarctal alr escort obo based on threst.

[cis ab nas been aided for alens coneered to be potential nationel securty testa,

[Tis eecton Lenties the new Esco Threat Asseasment tobe used when wansporting via Commorsal ar care.

slic fs completed porta condating escot

row section | VL Prooedurap D (2)()_ |The Escort Determinetion Crt snow tated nfs oun sation (M)OKSNS)-
aw eoction | VL Procedures D (2}@) |The Eacor Trea! Assessment ls sted, and defined Inte own sation (WHO)S}).

Vi Procedures 9 (8)] Vi. Procure D (5) [Added™..walbe Kentifed on a G-301 porta the escort commencing.” to rst sentence.

Vi Procedures D(@}] VI, Procedures 06) [LasLsentone of he section, changed shou osha fo mand [Link] fo shal be sented next o Ba delanons}*
1 Pracedures D7] recedes (7) & (fo change fo cone simpy broke eu ona tem nao to sl ms

ViPrecedses0(@)| Vi. Precedues 0(9) [No change to content manera cheng win oat onl

Vi erocediresD(2)| VI. Precesuee 0 (10) Jo change to conten: numeral change wl format ony.

Hv Procedures (10) Vi. Procedures D411). [No change to content nameric charg wit orate.

aw section 1. Procedures F (4) [This nom wae added to ensure compliance wit te Mey 2003 guidance memorandum from HADRO, tiled Enforcement Standard.
Pestana

|

You might also like

CSRA Precludes Jurisdiction in DHS Case

PDF

No ratings yet

CSRA Precludes Jurisdiction in DHS Case
7 pages

USCIS FOIA/PA Processing Guide

PDF

No ratings yet

USCIS FOIA/PA Processing Guide
262 pages

Alabama Voting Rights Compliance Review

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Voting Rights Compliance Review
3 pages

Hazleton Immigration Ordinance Case

PDF

No ratings yet

Hazleton Immigration Ordinance Case
347 pages

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)

PDF

No ratings yet

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)
282 pages

Valle del Sol v. Whiting Appeal Summary

PDF

No ratings yet

Valle del Sol v. Whiting Appeal Summary
46 pages

Alabama Certiorari Denial Implications

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Certiorari Denial Implications
42 pages

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)

PDF

No ratings yet

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)
87 pages

Understanding FOIA: Access and Impact

PDF

No ratings yet

Understanding FOIA: Access and Impact
38 pages

Permanent Injunction on S.B. 1070 Sections

PDF

No ratings yet

Permanent Injunction on S.B. 1070 Sections
1 page

Alabama GED Policy Manual

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama GED Policy Manual
9 pages

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc
77 pages

Petition for En Banc Rehearing

PDF

0% (1)

Petition for En Banc Rehearing
27 pages

Alabama Appeals Court Writ Denial Analysis

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Appeals Court Writ Denial Analysis
3 pages

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc
116 pages

Religious Exemption Concerns in Alabama

PDF

No ratings yet

Religious Exemption Concerns in Alabama
2 pages

DOJ Concerns on Alabama Education Law

PDF

No ratings yet

DOJ Concerns on Alabama Education Law
4 pages

Alabama Appeals Court Ruling on H.B. 56

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Appeals Court Ruling on H.B. 56
3 pages

Compliance with Alabama Immigration Act

PDF

No ratings yet

Compliance with Alabama Immigration Act
6 pages

ICE Directive on Alien Return Policy

PDF

No ratings yet

ICE Directive on Alien Return Policy
3 pages

Immigration Detainer Notice of Action

PDF

No ratings yet

Immigration Detainer Notice of Action
3 pages

Alabama Immigration Act Compliance Memo

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Immigration Act Compliance Memo
6 pages

Footer menu

Back to top

About
About Scribd, Inc.
Slideshare
Join our team!
Contact us

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Social

Instagram Instagram

Facebook Facebook

Pinterest Pinterest

Get our free apps

About
About Scribd, Inc.
Slideshare
Join our team!
Contact us

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices

Social

Instagram Instagram

Facebook Facebook

Pinterest Pinterest

Get our free apps

Documents

Language :
English

Copyright © 2026 Scribd Inc.

We take content rights seriously. Learn more in our FAQs or report infringement here .

We take content rights seriously. Learn more in our FAQs or report infringement here .

Language :
English

Copyright © 2026 Scribd Inc.

