

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Alien Encounters | PDF

Skip to main content

Open navigation menu

Close suggestions Search
Search

en Change Language , English

Upload

Sign in

Sign in

0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 13 views 17 pages

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Alien Encounters

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Uploaded by J Cox

AI-enhanced title

Copyright
© Attribution Non-Commercial (BY-NC)
We take content rights seriously. If you suspect this is your content, claim it here .

Available Formats
Download as PDF or read online on Scribd

Download

Save Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alien Encounters For Later

Share

0% 0% found this document useful, Mark this document as useful

0% 0% found this document not useful, Mark this document as not useful

Print

Embed

Report

0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 13 views 17 pages

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Alien Encounters

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Uploaded by J Cox

AI-enhanced title

Copyright
© Attribution Non-Commercial (BY-NC)
We take content rights seriously. If you suspect this is your content, claim it here .

Available Formats
Download as PDF or read online on Scribd

Go to previous items

Download

Save Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alien Encounters For Later

Share

0% 0% found this document useful, Mark this document as useful

0% 0% found this document not useful, Mark this document as not useful

Print

Embed

Report
Go to next items

Download

Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alien Encounters For Later

Share

More options

Fullscreen
™ U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
1 U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT
ACADEMY

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

Homeland
Security

This document may contain sensitive law enforcement information that is exempt
from release under Exemption 7 of the Freedom of Information Act. The ICE.
Academy Freedom of Information Act Coordinator must be consulted before

any of the information in this document is released.

—
ALIEN ENCOUNTERS

DEC/07
SYLLABUS

COURSE TITLE: ALIEN ENCOUNTERS.
COURSE NUMBER: 542.01

COURSE DATE: — DEC/O7

DESCRIPTION:

This course presents a discussion of the methods that are utilized in order to determine the
alienage and removabilty of subjects that are encountered during the course of an investigation.

‘TERMINAL PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVE (TPO):

Given a simulated field situation, the trainee will identify removable aliens according to statute,
policy, and procedure.

ENABLING PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES (epo):
EPO #1: Identify the purpose of questioning subjects.
EPO #2; Identify the primary questions used to establish allenage.
EPO # 3: Determine if alien subjects are removable from the United States.
EPO#-4: Exercising prosecutorial and custody discretion.

A. EPO #1; Identify the purpose of questioning subjects.

1. Toeffectively nd unauthorized aliens during the course of an
i ation,

2. The purpose of this questioning is to determine whether the person
encountered is an unauthorized alien. This is accomplished by establishing
alienage and removability.

3. Although the special agent usually has a reason (predication) to question, the

initial aE is a considered to be a consensual encounter.

4, Section 287(e)(1) gives officers the authority to interrogate without a warrant,
In order to conduct this interrogation, the officer needs reasonable suspicion
based on articulable facts (more than one) that the subject is an alien.

5, The special agent may not detain the person for questioning (Terry stop)
unless there is reasonable suspicion based on articulable facts (more than
one) that the person is an unauthorized alien
B. _EPO#

‘The mandatory fist step in any official encounter is for the special agent to
identify himseiffherself by name, agency, and tile. The officer should never
assume that the person encountered knows who sihe is, even if s/he is
wearing a raid jacket, badge, etc.

: Identify the primary question used to establish allenage.

C. _- EPO #3: Determine if alien subjects are removable from the United States.

1

(Once itis established that the subject is a cltizeh of a foréign country, the
officer needs to determine if the subject is an unauthorized alien and
‘therefore removable. The alien would be considered to be unauthorized if:

a. “The subject was not lawfully admitted to the United States; or

b. After lawful admission, the subject violated his lawful immigration
status

‘As a special agent, you will be enforcing numerous sections of law related to
the removal of aliens.

There are two categories of removable aliens:
a. _Inadmissible ~ alien is not or has never been awfully admitted to the
U.S. (Le. EW), fraudulent documents at admission)

, —_Deportable ~ alien has been lawfully admitted to the U.S., but has
Violated his lawful Immigration status. (.¢. Criminal, Overstay)
4,{/ There are some types of unauthorized aliens that are encountered more often
In the field. Common examples of removable aliens are as follows:

.EW| - An alien who entered the U.S. without inspection by an
inspector of the BCBP.

Overstay - An alien who was admitted as @ non-immigrant vis
has remained in the U.S. longer than 6 months.

rand

Status Violator - An alien who was admitted as a non-immigrant visitor
or student and is working in the U.S. (without authorization)

All aliens are required to carry proof of registration (Resident alien

cards, passports, ete.) on thelr person. Failure to do so is a

misdemeanor violation [8 USC 1304(e)]. However, this criminal
jolation is rarel

‘Once lawful admission is estabished, the special agent wil then ascertain
whether the subject has violated his/her lawful status in the U.S.

10. Once the special agent has the probable cause necessary to determine that
the lawfully admitted subject has violated his/her status, the special agent will
apprehend her/him and/or process herfhim for removal

EPO #4: Exercising prosecutorial and custody discretion.

4 Legal and policy background. “Prosecutorial discretion” is the authority of an
agency charged with enforcing a law to decide whether to enforos, or not to
enforce, the law against someone. (former INS Commissioner's
Memorandum of Noveriber 7, 2000)
2

5.

6.

ICE, like other enforcement agencies, has prosecutorial discretion and
exercises it everyday. ICE makes decision on prosecutorial discretion. In
the immigration context, the term of prosecutorial discretion applies not only
‘0 the discretion to Issue, cr fle a Notice to Appear (NTA), but also toa
broad range of other discretionary enforcement decisions, including among
others:

@, Focusing investigative resources on a particular offense or conduct,
deciding whom to stop, question, and arrest.

Maintaining an alien in custody

‘Seeking expedited removal or other forms of removal by means other

than a removal proceeding.

ICE setting or dismissing a proceeding,

Granting deferred action or staying a final action

Agreeing to voluntary departure

Withdrawal of an application for admission

h, Other action in lieu of removing the alien; pursuing an appeal; and”
executing a removal order.

The favorable exercise of ‘prosecutorial discretion” means a discretionary
decision not assert the full scope of ICE 's enforcement authority as
permitted under the law. Such decisions will take different forms, depending
oni the status of a particular matter, but include decisions as not issuing an
NTA, not detaining an alien placed in proceedings (where discretion remains
despite mandatory detention requirement, and approving deferred action.

erga

Courts recognize that prosecutorial discretion applies in the civil,
administrative arena just as it does in criminal law. The U.S. Supreme Court
“has recognized on several occasions over many years that an agency's
decision not to prosecute or enforce, whether through civil or criminal
process, is a decision generally committed to an agency's absolute
discretion.” Heckler v. Chaney, 470 U.S. 821, 631 (1985).

Both Congress and the Supreme Court have recently reaffirmed t
concept of prosecutorial discretion applies to ICE enforcement activities,
‘Such as whether to place an individual in deportation proceedings. INA.
‘section 242(g); Reno v. American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee. 525
U.S. 471 (1999).

‘The “discretion” in prosecutorial discretion means that prosecutorial
decisions are not subject to judicial review or reversal, except in
extremely narrow circumstances. Consequently, it is a powerful too!
that must be used responsibly.
410.

‘One it is established that the subject has a medical conditions that should
trigger or flag a need for case review and consideration for prosecutorial
discretion, the officers are authorized by law and expected to exercise
discretion in a judicious manner at all stages of the enforcement process.
(ICE-DRO Director's Memorandum of December 11, 2006)

Examples of medical conditions requiring case review and consideration for
prosecutorial discretion when making custody determinations for adults and
juveniles aliens.

@. Advanced chronic conditions with complications (e.g., dialysis with
liver disease).

Advanced immuno-compromised diseases (¢.g., HIVIAIDS, cancer)
Pendingirecent organ transplants.

Paraplegics/mult-imb amputees confined to wheelchairs.
‘Muiti-degenerative diseases in the very elderly.

Extreme mental retardation/mental ilness/mental incompetence.
Blindness.

Significant pregnancy complications.

yemeaog

In situations where staff must respond to a pickup request or detainer placed
‘against an adult or juvenile alien with severe medical condition or psychiatric
Condition, the Field Office Director (FOD) should weigh the appropriateness
for taking that person into federal custody absent a mandatory detention
requirement, exceptional concem such as national security, or articulable
danger to the community thet cannot be addressed by the referring agency.

A favorable exercise of discretion should be considered on a case-by-case
basis whenever a medical or psychiatric evaluation, diagnosis, treatment
plan, or other documentation provided by the referring agency indicates the
existence of extreme disease or an impairment that makes detention
problematic and/or removal highly unlikely. Exercising prosecutorial
discretion when considering whether to accept these types of referrals allows
DRO to:

a. Show compassion and humanitarian concer, when appropriate,

b. Maximize impact on enforcement and removal by not detaining aliens
Who are unable to complete removal process because of severe
ilness.

c. Reduce catastrophic health care costs.
co

12.

13,

14,

16.

16.

In situations where itis neither practical nor desirable to cancel a detainer or
deny the pickup of a seriously Il alien (e.g, high profile case, lack of sufficient
documentation), the FOD should take the adult or juvenile into custody and
proceed with immigration proceedings and custody determinations as
appropriate under he law (e.g., parole or release recognizance).

‘Thé [Link] any alien subject to mandatory detention shall be coordinated
with local counsel and the Executlve Office of Inimigration Review (EOIR) to
expedite proceedings or arrive at a resolution. The U.S. Public Health
Service (PHS) may be consutted when additional medical information or
guidance is needed to clarify the type and severity of medical condition or to
Identify the special needs of a detainee, The case of any alien released from
‘custody shall be handled in accordance with policy and procedure for non-
detained aliens. poe

While the ultimate authority to rake custody determinations rests with the
FOD in most cases, requests for Headquarters assistance to address novel
situations or medical conditions as they relate to adult detainees may be
addressed to the Detention Management Division or Removal Management
Division, as appropriate. For minors detained in the custody of ICE, novel
‘questions should be addressed to the Field Office Juvenile Coordinator
(FONC) or, if unresolved, to the Headquarters National Juvenile Coordination
Unit, due to vulnerabilties and special requirements of this population.

IN CRIMINAL CASES, PROSECUTORIAL DISCRETATION REST SOLELY
WITH THE AUSA.

Requests for assistance from Headquarters’ Custody Determination Unit
{(CDU), Travel Document Unit (TDU), or Air Transportation Unit (ATU) should
be accompanied by the necessary medical documentation and immigration
‘case history to enable headquarters staff to atrive at the best determination
or arrangement for the alien. ndition or to identify amples of situations
‘considering case review for consideration and prosecutorial discretion before
taking @ nursing mother into custody. (ICE-Assistant Secretary's
Memorandum of November 7, 2007).

Examples of situations considering case review for consideration and
prosecutorial discretion before taking a nursing mother Into custody. (ICE-
Assistant Secretary's Memorandum of November 7, 2007).

@. Absent any statutory detention requirement concems such as national
security, threats to public safety or other investigative interests, the
nursing mother should be release on an Order of Recognizance or
‘Order of Supervision and the Alternatives to Detentions programs
should be considered as an additional enforcement fool.
b.

In situations where ICE has determined, due to one of the above
listed concems or a statutory detention requirement to take a nursing
‘mother into custody, the field personnel should consider placing a
mother with her non-U.S. citizen child in the T. Don Hutto or Berks
family residential center, provided there are no medical or legal issues
that preclude their removal and they meet the placement factors of the
facility. Fora nursing mother with a U.S. citizen child, the pertinent
state social service agencies should be contacted to identify and
‘address any caregiver issues the allen mother might have in order to
‘maintain the unity of the mother and child of the above listed release
‘condition can be met.

‘The decision to detain nursing mothers shall be reported through the
programs operational chain of command.
$$$ rarricrrar Gre,
Lesson Plan Overview

(Course PEN ENCOUNTERS
‘ourse Purpose "This course presents a discussion of the methods that are utilized in
lorder to determine the alienage and removability of subjects that are
‘encountered during the course of an investigation,
jeld Performance iven a simulated field situation, the trainee will identify removable
jective iens and determine the actions necessary to affect an arrest
cording to statute, policy, and procedure,
Enabling (Training) 1. Identify the three categories of LEO encounters with the
‘erformance Objectives public.
2. Identify the purpose of questioning subjects.
3. Identify the primary question used to establish alienage.
4, Determine if alien subjects are removable.

5. Determine the procedures necessary to affect an arrest.
jctional Methods [1 hour classroom lecture, PowerPoint presentation, and a classroom |
prssise (2 hours total)

fPraining Aids None’

Method of Evaluation — Multiple choice examination

Student Materials/ [Student workbook

References

‘instructional Equipment Classroom, writing surface (chalkboard, flipchart), and a computer
ached projector i

ICE ACADEMY ALIEN ENCOUNTERS

7/18/2006 1
_ PARTICIPANT GUIDE.
L INTRODUCTION

A. Purpose of Course

One of the duties of an ICE officer/agent is to encounter and
appreberd removable aliens. This duty can be critical to the
successful completion of cases.

In order to discern which aliens are in the United States in
violation of law, it is crucial that the ICE officer/agent know the
method of encountering and identifying removable aliens in the
field.

B. Objectives
The objectives for this course are as follows:

1, Identify the three categories of LEO encounters with the
public.

Identify the purpose of questioning subjects.

‘Identify the primary question used to establish alienage.
Determine if alien subjects are removable,

‘Determine the procedures necessary to affect an arrest.

pays

ICE ACADEMY ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
7718/2006 2
$$$ rarericrrart Go
I ENCOUNTERING ALIENS

A. LEO-Public Encounters

Law Enforcement encounters with private individuals have

been divided into three categories: the arrest, the

investigatory stop and consensual encounters. People'v. Cascio, 932

1. The first and least intrusive encounter is when an officer ion 1385 (Colo

merely approaches an individual on a street and asks if he
is willing to answer a question; because the encounter is Terry v. Ohio, 392 US
ina public place and is consensual, it does not constitute 1, 19 n.16 (1968)
"seizure" within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment. -ysyizs y Bostick $01

This type of questioning does not require a warrant Us. 429 (1991)
providing that a reasonable person would understand that ~
he or she could refuse to cooperate. The initially US v. Chan-Jimenes,

consensual encounter is transformed into a seizure when, sf 0,
considering all the circumstances, a reasonable person oe 34.1324 00" Cie.
would believe that he isnt fre to leave, Circumstances arma, Hoda
that might indicate a seizure, even where the person did 499 US. 621 (1991)
not attempt to leave, would be the threatening presence of “°° US:
several officers, the display of a weapon by an officer,
physical contact of the person by the officer or the use of ts Saco
Janguage or tone of voice indicating thatthe officer's :
‘request might be compelled. Remember these oe
circumstances would be based on the totaly of the 7) "4 Fsoitahay
situation as seen through the eyes of a reasonable ae
person. With regards to determining alienage, ICE
officers may interrogate any alien or person believed to be
an alien as to his or her right to be or remain in the United
States. Nero

2. The second type of encounter is when the officer may Scena
justifiably restrain an individual for a brief investigatory .

inquiry if he has an “reasonable suspicion” based on
articulable facts (more than one!) that the person has SCER 287.8002)
committed or is about to commit a crime. Individuals US. v. Vega, 72F.34

may be detained for a period of time where officers are
proceeding reasonably to dispel or confirm their 507 (* Car. 1995)
suspicions. Again, this type of encounter does not require
‘[Link]. This situation many times stems from 2 eG eae
consensual encounter but, unlike the consensual :
encounter, the officer must identify himself or herself to
detain an individual for further investigation.
‘SAUL ORNELAS and
ISMAEL ORNELAS-

TENEOMS Datitinwone

ICE ACADEMY ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
78/2006 3
a errant Gove
LEDESMA, Petitioners,
». UNITED STATES,
3, The final category is the full-scale arrest, which must 517 U.S. 690 (1996)

be based on probable cause. A warrant should be

obtained unless the ICE officer has reason to believe 8 CFR 287.8(c)

that the person is likely to escape before a warrant can

‘be obiained, i.e. An alien present in the United States

in violation of the INA with few ties to the community.

B. Purpose of Questioning Subjects

1. To effectively apprehend ilegal aliens during the
course of an investigation, the ICE officer/agent will
have to question individuals using one of the
aforementioned encounters. One of the more common
encounters used isthe consensual encounter; therefore,
a casual and friendly approach will generally assist in
obtaining a more favorable result.
2. Although not mandatory at this stage, the ofScer may
‘want to identify himselherself at this time. The
officer should never assume thatthe person
encountered knows who he/she is, even if they are
plainly identified. By identifying himseif/herself, the
officer ensures thatthe alien knows that they have
encountered a member of law enforcement and adverse
actions on their part, Le, lynig or assaultive behavior,
may have ramifications. Should the officers choose
not to identify themselves at this time, such adverse
actions may be difficult to later prosecute.
3. Although the purpose of this questioning is to
determine whether the individual encountered is in the
United States in violation of the Immigration and
Nationality Act, the questioning may begin ina much Sy, Delgado, 466s.
more benign manner to obtain additional articulable 2}0 (1984)
facts (Language ability, accents ete); however, the goal
of the questioning, usually to establish alienage and Toaicasea) _
removebility, should not be lost. 1

C. Establishing alienage

ICE ACADEMY ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
711812006 4
$$$ $$$ Parricreanr Gurr

1

‘The question used to ascertain the alienage of an
individual is “Of what country are you a citizen?”
‘This question enables the officer to obtain a clear and
unambiguous declaration of citizenship.

If the subject informs the agent that he/she is a citizen
of a country other than the United States, questioning
will continue to determine removability.. At this time
the officer has enough information to establish
reasonable suspicion and detain the individual pending
a determination of removability, if this level of
‘encounter has not already been reached,

Ifthe subject informs the officer that he/she is a citizen
of the United States, and the officer believes him/her,
questioning will terminate, If not, the officer may
continue questioning for as long as the subject permits.
(Consensual), until the agent has the reasonable
suspicion backed by articulable facts to justify a brief
investigatory inquiry or until the agent has probable
cause to effect an arrest. If an officer does not have
enough articulable facts to detzin the subject and the
‘person wants to end the conversation, the officer must
allow the person to leave. Ifa reasonable person
‘would not believe they have the ability to leave; as
above, the encounter is no longer consensual and may
be subject to 4" amendment requirements,

US. v. Karaount, 379
F.3d 1139 (th
2004)

‘Remember that US.
Citizens are not required to
‘carry proof of citizenship!

8 CER 287.80)

Florida v.
Rayer, 460 U.S. 491
(1983)

ICE ACADEMY

78/2006

ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
5
$$$ rarer Gov

D.

1

Removability

Once it is established that the subject is a
citizen of a foreign country, the agent needs to
determine ifthe subject is an illegel alien and
therefore removable. The alien would be
considered to be removabie if the subject was
not lawfully admitted to the United States or
after lawful admission, the subject violated his
Jawfal immigration status.

‘The aforementioned two categories of aliens
are referred to as:

i. Inadmissible ~ alien is not or has
never been lawfully admitted to
the U.S. (ie. EWY, frandulent
documents at admission)

ii, Deportable ~ alien has been
lawfully admitted to the U.S., but
has violated his lawful
immigration status. (,¢. Criminal,
Overstay, etc.)

If the subject claims that he/she is lawfully
resent in the United States, he/she should be
able to prove his/her claim by producing a
document, ie., passport, -551, 1-586, EAD,
etc.; otherwise, failure to do so is a
misdemeanor violation under 8 USC 1304(e).
Should this take place, subject may be held as
an investigative inquiry while the ICE officer
verifies the subject's claim via the LESC,
Sector, the officer's duty station or awaiting the
alien's documents to be brought to the location,
etc

If the alien claims that he is in the United
States unlawfully or that it has been proven that,

212(a) of the INA

237(a) of the INA,

8 USC 1304(@) would rarely
‘be accepted for prosecution

Individuals that present
‘their documentation may be
‘queried as itis
‘commonplace that
Individuals that have been
deported or who have
committed serious crimes
retain their documents.

ICE ACADEMY
7/18/2006

ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
6
$$ rarricreant Gu

‘he has somehow violated his status and is now
deportable, the subject may now, if not already
done, be placed under arrest as probable cause
exists.

E. Arrest

1, Atthe time of the arrest, thie designated
immigration officer shall, as soon'as it is
‘practical and safe to do so:

i ‘Identify himself/herself as an
immigration officer who is
authorized to execute an arrest

i, Inform the subject that they are
under arrest and the reason for the
arrést.

And

2. Inthe case of an administrative arrest:

i, im the case of an alien arrested
without warrant under the
authority of section 287(a)(2) of
the INA, have the alien exatnined
by another qualified officer. If
satisfied that there is primae facie
evidence that the alien is in the
United States in violation of the
INA, take appropriate action to
properly process the alien for
retnoval, ie,, Serve J-862 for 240

. case, Lefier for VWP violator, -
871 for reinstatement, etc.

fi, Notify the alien of the reasons for
his arrest, provide a list of free
legal services and inform that
he/she may be represented at no
expense to the goverment and

inform the alien that any statement

made by the alien may be used
against him/her.

Within 48 hours of arrest, unless
voluntary departure has been
granted or in the event of an
emergency or extraordinary

8 CFR 287.8(6)@2)

8CFR2873

ICE ACADEMY
7718/2006

ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
7
rricrrnt Go

situation, notify the alien of the
™ custody determination and

‘whether anotice to appear and

‘warrant of arrest will be issued.

3, In the case of a criminal arrest:

i, advise the person of the
‘appropriate rights required by law
af the time of the arrest or as soon
after as practical, ensure that the
rights Were given to the alien in a
lenguage that he/she understands,
ensure that the rights were
understood and document the fact
thet the person has been made
aware of his/her rights.
Contact an Assistant U.S.
‘Attomey to arrange for an initial
appearance and without,
unnecessary delay the person must
be brought before @ United States
Magistrate Judge, District Judge
\ or ifnecessary a judicial officer
/ empowered in accordance with 18
USC 3041 charged to commit
‘persons charged with such crimes.

8 CER 287.8(6)(v) and (vi)

‘The AUSA must be
‘contacted prior to verity if
the US Government will
prosecute the case in
‘question. This action is
called presenting a case for
prosecution. If prosecution
is declined by the AUSA the
case will not be forwarded
to the courts; otherwise, the
initial appearance isthe
next step.

ICE ACADEMY
7718/2006

ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
arian Gum
m su ¢Y REVI )UESTIONS

A, What are the three types of LEO-public encounters?

2. What is the primary question asked in order to escertain a person’s citizenship?

3. What is the main purpose in questioning an alien?

4, What are the two categories of removable aliens? Explain the difference.

5. What are the first two things that an officer must do when placing an alien under arrest,
as soon ai it is safe and practical to do 80?

ICE ACADEMY ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
7/18/2006 9

You might also like

CSRA Precludes Jurisdiction in DHS Case

PDF

No ratings yet

CSRA Precludes Jurisdiction in DHS Case
7 pages

USCIS FOIA/PA Processing Guide

PDF

No ratings yet

USCIS FOIA/PA Processing Guide
262 pages

Alabama Voting Rights Compliance Review

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Voting Rights Compliance Review
3 pages

Hazleton Immigration Ordinance Case

PDF

No ratings yet

Hazleton Immigration Ordinance Case
347 pages

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)

PDF

No ratings yet

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)
282 pages

Valle del Sol v. Whiting Appeal Summary

PDF

No ratings yet

Valle del Sol v. Whiting Appeal Summary
46 pages

Alabama Certiorari Denial Implications

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Certiorari Denial Implications
42 pages

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)

PDF

No ratings yet

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)
87 pages

Understanding FOIA: Access and Impact

PDF

No ratings yet

Understanding FOIA: Access and Impact
38 pages

Permanent Injunction on S.B. 1070 Sections

PDF

No ratings yet

Permanent Injunction on S.B. 1070 Sections
1 page

Alabama GED Policy Manual

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama GED Policy Manual
9 pages

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc
77 pages

Petition for En Banc Rehearing

PDF

0% (1)

Petition for En Banc Rehearing
27 pages

Alabama Appeals Court Writ Denial Analysis

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Appeals Court Writ Denial Analysis
3 pages

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc
116 pages

Religious Exemption Concerns in Alabama

PDF

No ratings yet

Religious Exemption Concerns in Alabama
2 pages

DOJ Concerns on Alabama Education Law

PDF

No ratings yet

DOJ Concerns on Alabama Education Law
4 pages

Alabama Appeals Court Ruling on H.B. 56

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Appeals Court Ruling on H.B. 56
3 pages

Compliance with Alabama Immigration Act

PDF

No ratings yet

Compliance with Alabama Immigration Act
6 pages

ICE Directive on Alien Return Policy

PDF

No ratings yet

ICE Directive on Alien Return Policy
3 pages

Immigration Detainer Notice of Action

PDF

No ratings yet

Immigration Detainer Notice of Action
3 pages

Alabama Immigration Act Compliance Memo

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Immigration Act Compliance Memo
6 pages

Footer menu

Back to top

About
About Scribd, Inc.
Slideshare
Join our team!
Contact us

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Social

Instagram Instagram

Facebook Facebook

Pinterest Pinterest

Get our free apps

About
About Scribd, Inc.
Slideshare
Join our team!
Contact us

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices

Social

Instagram Instagram

Facebook Facebook

Pinterest Pinterest

Get our free apps

Documents

Language :
English

Copyright © 2026 Scribd Inc.

We take content rights seriously. Learn more in our FAQs or report infringement here .

We take content rights seriously. Learn more in our FAQs or report infringement here .

Language :
English

Copyright © 2026 Scribd Inc.

