

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alien Encounters

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook &ndash Alien Encounters
J Cox
For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007
17
111
10 / 31 / 2009

Government Docs

http://s6.scribdassets.com/images/filetypes/pdf_16x16.gif?1260304937

-->

Log In or Sign Up

Log In

If you already have an account, log in.

Username or Email

Password

Trouble logging in?

Other Login Options

Login with Facebook Connect!

Log In with OpenID

Log In with OpenID

Sign up for a Free Account

It's quick and easy.

Why Sign up?

Publish documents quickly and easily

Share your documents with others

Manage and update your documents

Email Address (Required)

Create Username

Create Password (Required)

We respect your privacy and won’t send any unnecessary emails. Read our privacy policy .

Login Successful

Now bringing you back...

Signup Successful

Now bringing you back...

« Back to Login

Reset your password

Please enter your email address below to reset your password. We will send you an email with instructions on how to continue.

Email address:

You need to provide a login for this account as well.

Login:

Sign up for a Free Account

It's quick and easy.

Why Sign up?

Publish documents quickly and easily

Share your documents with others

Manage and update your documents

Email Address (Required)

Create Username

Create Password (Required)

Other Login Options

Login with Facebook Connect!

We respect your privacy and won’t send any unnecessary emails. Read our privacy policy .

Home

Explore

Community

Sign Up

|

Log In

by J Cox

Related Documents

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Enforcement Operations

63 reads

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Authority to Detain

112 reads

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alien Processing

55 reads

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Statutory Authority

46 reads

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Criminal Law

32 reads

T5 B7 CRU DRO 9-11 Detainees Fdr- DOJ Document Request 9- Memo- 2 CRU Special Interest Cases- Withdrawal Notice- 27 Pgs CRU SI Cases 200

147 reads

ICE Academy Workbook on Statutory Authority (Fall 2007)

36 reads

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Travel Documentation

35 reads

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Constitutional Provisions and Civil Rights

58 reads

Letter to Judge Rosenthal 05032008

1129 reads

Dream Act 2009 Senators

2597 reads

Government Accountability Office (GAO) - ICE Could Improve Controls to Help Guide Alien Removal Decision Making (Oct. 2007)

9 reads

Why Would the Consulate Deny My Visa

725 reads

Inmigration Bill

128 reads

Inmigration Bill

125 reads

Immigration 070518

186 reads

T5 B64 GAO Visa Docs 1 of 6 Fdr- 3-24-03 GAO Interview of INS-Sarah Kendall Re Legal Issues and Visa Revocation 516

54 reads

s. 2205

841 reads

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alternate Orders of Removal

77 reads

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Re-Entry After Removal

46 reads

Related Documents

Stats

Reads

Value

This
Doc

Scribd
Average

Pages:

17

43

Words:

3979

13640

Characters:

26169

81678

Lines:

474

623

Letters per word:

6.58

5.99

Words per line:

8.39

21.89

Words per page:

234.06

317.21

Add to your reading list

Flag this document

Flag This Document

Please select the reason(s) for reporting this document

Spam or junk

Porn adult content

Hateful or offensive

Cancel

If you are the copyright owner of this document and want to report it, please follow these directions to submit a copyright infringement notice.

Document Information

111 Reads | 0 Comments

Description

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

17 Pages

Date Added

10/31/2009

Category

Government Docs

Tags

ice , immigration , FOIA , dhs , immigration and customs enforcement , department of homeland security , 287g , 287(g) , immigration enforcement

Groups

Copyright

Attribution Non-commercial

More info »

Login or Signup to Scribble a Comment

or use

Facebook Connect

﻿/~! U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
"
u.s. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY
INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION
Homeland Security
This document may contain sensitive law enforcement information that is exempt from release under Exemption 7 of the Freedom of Information Act. The ICE Academy Freedom of Information Act Coordinator must be consulted before any of the information in this document is released.
542.01
ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
DEC/07
\ )
SYLLABUS
COURSE TITLE: ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
COURSE NUMBER: 542.01
COURSE DATE:
DEC/07
DESCRIPTION:
This course presents a discussion of the methods that are utilized in order to determine the alienage and removability of subjects that are encountered during the course of an investigation.
TERMINAL PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVE (TPO):
Given a simulated field situation, the trainee will identify removable aliens according to statute, policy, and procedure.
ENABLING PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES (epo):
EPO # 1: Identify the purpose of questioning subjects.
EPO # 2: Identify the primary questions used to establish alienage.
EPO # 3: Determine if alien subjects are removable from the United States. EPO# 4: Exercising prosecutorial and custody discretion.
) A. EPO '# 1: Identify the purpose of questioning subjects.
1.
2. The purpose of this questioning is to determine whether the person encountered is an unauthorized alien. This is accomplished by establishing alienage and removability.
3. Although the special agent usually has a reason (predication) to question, the
. ordi considered to be a consensual encounter.
4. Section 287(a)(1) gives officers the authority to interrogate without a warrant In order to conduct this interrogation, the officer needs reasonable suspicion based on articulable facts (more than one) that the subject is an alien.
5. The special agent may not detain the person for questioning (Terry stop) unless there is reasonable suspicion based on articulable facts (more than one) that the person Is an unauthorized alien.
6. The mandatory first step in any official encounter is for the special agent to identify himself/herself by name, agency, and title. The officer should never assume that the person encountered knows who slhe is, even if s/he is wearing a raid jacket, badge, etc.
B. EPO # 2: Identify the primary question used to establish alie
c. . EPO # 3: Determine ·if alien subjects are removable from the United States.
1. Once it is established that the subject is a dtizenofafoh3ign country, the officer needs to determine if the subject is an unauthorized alien and therefore. removable. The alien would be. considere,d: to be unauthorized if:
a. The subject was not lawfully admltted to the United ,States; or
b. After lawful admission, the subject violated his lawful immigration status
2. As a special agent, you will be enforCing numerous seetions of law related to the removal of aliens.
3. There are twocf;l.tegories of removablealiens:
a. inadmissible - alien is not or has never been rawfully admitted to the U.S. (l,e. EWI, fraudulent documents at admission)
b. Deportable - alien has been lawfully admitted to the U.S., but has violated his lawful immigration status. (l.e, Criminal, Overstay)
4.
. :A'~
'G~~~~ L.>'
There are some types of unauthorized aliens that are encountered more often in the field. Common examples of removable aliens are as follows:
____ -"EWI- An alien who entered the U.S. without inspection by an
inspector of the BCBP.
b. Oversta'l - An alien who was admitted as a non-immigrant visitor and
. has remained in the U.S. longer than 6 months.
c. Status Violator - An alien who was admitted as a non-immigrant visitor or student and is working in the U.S. (without authorization).
a.
All aliens are required to carry proof of registration (Resident alien cards, passports, etc.) on their person. Failure to do so is a misdemeanor violation [8 USC 1304(e)]. However, this criminal
Once lawful admission is established, the special agent then ",,,u'ort·,,,in
whether the subject has violated his/her lawful status in the U.S.
1 O. Once the special agent has the probable cause necessary to determine that the lawfully admitted subject has violated his/her status, the special agent will apprehend her/him and/or process her/him for removal.
D. EPO # 4: Exercising prosecutorial and custody discretion.
1. Legal and policy background. "Prosecutorial discretion" is the authority of an agency charged with enforcing a law to decide whether to enforce, or not to enforce, the law against someone. (former I NS Commissioner's Memorandum of November 7, 2000)
2. ICE, like other enforcement agencies, has prosecutorlal discretion and exercises it everyday. ICE makes decision on prosecutorial discretion. In the immigration context, the term of prosecutorial discretion applies not only to the discretion to issue, or file a Notice to Appear (NTA), but also to a broad range of other discretionary enforcement decisions, including among others:'
a. Focusing investigative resources on a particular offense or conduct, deciding whom to stop, question, and arrest.
b. Maintaining an alien in custody
c. Seeking expedited removal or other forms of removal by means other than a removal proceeding.
d. ICE settling or dismissing a proceeding .
. ,
e. Granting deferred action or staying a final action
f. Agre~ing to voluntarily departure
. I
g. Withdrawal qf an application for admission
h, Other action in lieu of removing the alien; pursuing an appeal; and
executing a removal order. '
3. The favorable exercise of "prosecutorial discretion" means a discretionary decision not assert the full scope of ICE's enforcement authority as permitted under the law. Such decisions will take different forms, depending on the status of a particular matter, but include decisions as not issuing an NTA, not detaining an alien placed in proceedings (where discretion remains despite mandatory detention requirement, and approving deferred action.
, . ,
4. Courts recoqnizs that prosecutorial discretion applies in the civil, administrative arena just as it does in criminal law. The U.S. Supreme Court "has recognized on several occasions over many years that an agency's decisibn not to prosecute or enforce, whether through civil or criminal 'process, is a decision generally Con;miitt~d to an agency's absolute discretion." Hecklerv, Chaney, 470 U.S."821, 831'(1985).
5. Both Congress and the Supreme Court have recently reaffirmed that the
. concept of prosecutorial discretion applies to ICE enforcement activities, such as whether to place an individual in deportation proceedings. INA section 242(g); Reno v. American .. Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee. 525 U.S. 471 (1999).
6. The "discretion" in prosecutorial d.iscretion means that prosecutorial decisi.ons are not subject to judicial review or reversal, except in extremely narrow ctrcumstanees, Consequently, it is a powerful tool that must be used responsibly. '
7. Once it is established that the subject has a medical conditions that should trigger or flag a need for case review and consideration for prosecutorial discretion, the officers are authorized by law and expected to exercise discretion in a judicious manner at all stages of the enforcement process. (ICE-DRO Director's Memorandum of December 11, 2006)
8. Examples of medical conditions requiring case review and consideration for prosecuto ria I discretion when making custody determinations for adults and juveniles aliens.
a. Advanced chronic conditions with complications (e.g., dialysis with
liver disease).
b. Advanced immune-compromised diseases (e.g., HIVIAIDS, cancer)
c. Pendinglrecent organ transplants.
d. Paraplegics/multi-limb amputees confined to wheelchairs.
e. Multi-degenerative diseases in the very elderly.
f. Extreme mental retardation/mental illness/mental incompetence.
g. Blindness.
h. Significant pregnancy complications.
9.
In situations where staff must respond to a pickup request or detainer placed against an adult or juvenile alien with severe medical condition or psychiatric condition, the Field Office Director (FaD) should weigh the appropriateness for taking that person into federal custody absent a mandatory detention requirement, exceptional concern such as national security, or articulable danger to the community that cannot be addressed by the referring agency.
10. A favorable exercise of discretion should be considered on a case-by-case basis whenever a medical or psychiatric evaluation, diagnosis, treatment plan, or other documentation provided by the referring agency indicates the existence of extreme disease or an impairment that makes detention . problematic and/or removal highly unlikely. Exercising prosecutorial discretion when considering whether to accept these types of referrals allows ORO to:
a. Show compassion and humanitarian concern, when appropriate.
·b. M~ximize impact on enforcement and removal by not detaining aliens who are unable to complete removal process because of severe illness.
c. Reduce catastrophic health care costs.
11. In situations where it is neither practical nor desirable to cancel a detainer or deny the pickup ofa seriously ill alien (e.q., high profile case, lack of sufficient documentation), the FOD should take the adult or juvenile into custody and proceed with .immigra~ion proceedings and cusfody determinatlons as appropriate under he law (e.g.,' paroie or release recognizance).
12. The case. of any alien subject to mandatory detention shall be coordinated with local counsel and the Executive Office of Irrimigration Review (EOIR) to expedite proceedings or arrive at a resolution. The U.S. Public Health SerVice (PHS) may be consulted when additional medical information or guidance is needed to clarify the type and severlty of medical condition or to identify the. special needs of.a detainee. The case of anyallen released from custody shall be handled in accordance with poifcyand procedure for non-
detained aliens. . . . .
13. While the ultimate authority to make CListody determinations rests with the FOD In most cases, requests for Headquarters assistance to address novel situations' or medical conditions as they relate to adult detainees may be addressed to the Detention Management Division or Removal Management Division, as appropriate. For minors detained, in the custody of ICE, novel questions should be addressed to the Field Office Juvenile Coordinator (FOJC) or, if unresolved, to the Headquarters National Juvenile Coordination Unit, due to vulnerabilities and special requirements of this population,
14. . IN CRIMINA~ 9ASES, PROSECUTORIAL DIScREtA"rION REST SOLELY WITH THE,AUSA.
15.
Requests for assistance from Headquarters' Custody Determination Unit (Cou)" Traver Qocument Vnit (TDU), orAlr Transportatlon Unit (ATU) should be aG<:?ompaniedby the. necessary medical d9cumentaJiQn and immigration case historY to enabJeh~adquartersstaff to arrive at the best determination or arrangement for the alien: ndltion or to, identify amples of situations considering case review for consideration and pro~ecutorial discretion before taking a nurE?ing mother into ~u$tody. (ICE-Ai>Sistant Secretary's Memorandum of November 7, 2007).
16.
Examples of situations considering case review for conslderatlon and prosecutonal discretiqn'pefore taking a nursing.mother into custody. (ICEAssistant Secretary's Memorandum of November", 2007).
a. Absent any statutory detention requirement concerns such as national security, threats to public safety or other investigative interests, the nursing mother should be release on an Order of Recognizance or Order of Supervision and the Alternatives to Detentions programs should be considered as an additional enforcement tool.
In situations where ICE has determined, due to one of the above
listed concerns or a statutory detention requirement to take a nursing mother into custody, the field personnel should consider placing a mother with her non-U.S. citizen child in the T. Don Hutto or Berks family residential center, provided there are no medical or legal issues that preclude their removal and they meet the 'placement factors of the facility. For a nursing mother with a U.S. citizen child, the pertinent state social service agencies should be contacted to identify and address any caregiver issues the alien mother might have in order to maintain the unity of the mother and child of the above listed release condition can be met.
c. The decision to detain nursing mothers shall be reported through the programs operational chain of command.
b.
"\ )
-)
\. )
, .
----------------------------------------------------~ARTIapANTGUIDE
Lesson Plan Overview
~ourse
!ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
Course Purpose
IThis course presents a discussion of the methods that ate utilized in
order to determine the alienage and removability of subjects that are
!encountered during the course of an investigation.
!Field Performance
lGiven a simulated field situation, the trainee will identify removable
pbjective
aliens and determine the actions necessary to affect an arrest
according to statute, policy, and procedure.
Enabling (Training)
1.
Identify the three categories of LEO encounters with the
Performance Objectives
public.
2.
Identify the purpose of questioning subjects.
3.
Identify the primary question used to establish alienage.
4.
Determine if alien subjects are removable.
5.
Determine the procedures necessary to affect-an arrest.
Instructional Methods
1 hour classroom lecture, PowerPoint presentation, and. a classroom
exercise (2 hours total)
Irraining Aids
None
.Method of Evaluation
Multiple choice examination
Student MateriaIs!
Student workbook
References
Instructional Equipment
IClassroom, writing surface (chalkboard, flipchart), and a computer
!with an attached :grojector
ICE ACADEMY 7/1812006
ALIEN ENCOUNTERS 1
----------------------------------------------------~ARTIC~ANTGillDE
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Purpose of Course
One of the duties of an ICE officer/agent is to encounter and apprehend removable aliens. This duty can be critical to the successful completion of cases.
In order to discern which aliens are in the United States in violation of law, it is crucial that the ICE officer/agent know the method of encountering and identifying removable aliens in the field ..
B. Objectives
The objectives for this course are as follows:
1. Identify the three categories of LEO encounters with the
public.
2. Identify the purpose of questioning subjects.
3. Identify the primary question used to establish alienage.
4. Determine if alien subjects are removable. ,
") 5. Determine the procedures necessary to affect an arrest.
\, //
ICE ACADEMY 7/18/2006
ALIEN ENCOUNTERS 2
n. ' ENCOONTERING ALIENS
-------------------------------------------------P,ARTI~ANTGumE
A. LEO-Public Encounters
Law Enforcement encounters with private individuals have been divided into three categories: the arrest, the investigatory stop and consensual encounters.
1. The first and least intrusive encounter is when an officer merely approaches an individual on a street and asks ifhe is willing to answer a question; because the encounter is in a public place and is consensual, it does not constitute a "seizure" within themeanmg'Ofthe Fourth Amendment, This type of questioning does not require a warrant
providing that a reasonable person would understand that he 'Or she could refuse to cooperate. The initially consensual encounter is transformed into a seizure when, considering all the circumstances, a reasoMble'pers6n would believe that he is net free to leave. Circumstances that might indicate a seizure, even where the person did net attempt to leave, would be the threatening presence 'Of several officers, the display 'Of a weapon by an 'Officer, physical contact 'Of the person by the 'Officer 'Or the use 'Of language 'Or tone 'Of voice indicating that the 'Officer's request might be compelled, Remember these circumstances would be based on the totality of the situation as seen through the eyes of a reasonable person. With regards to determining alienage, ICE 'Officers may interrogate any alien 'Or person believed to be an alien as to his or her right to be 'Or remain in the United States.
2. The second type 'Of encounter is when the officer may justifiably restrain an individual fer a brief investigatory inquiry ifhe has an "reasonable suspicion" based on articulable facts (mere than onel) that the person has committed or is about to commit a crime. Individuals may be detained fer a period of time where 'Officers are proceeding reasonably to dispel or confirm their suspicions. Again, this type 'Of encounter does net require a warrant. This situation many times stems from a ' consensual encounter but, unlike the consensual encounter, the 'Officer must identify himself or herself to detain an individual fer further investigation.
People v. Cascio, 932 p.2d 1:581,1385 (C'Olo. 1997)
Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 19.n.16 (1968)
, .
Florida v. Bostick 501 u.s. 429 (1991)
us. ·v. Chan-Jimenez, 125 F~ 3d 132;4 (9th Cir. 1997)
California v. Hodari, 499 us, 621 (1,991)
u.s. v. Mendenhall, 446 U.S. 544 (1980)
Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 501 (1983)
lNA 287(a)(1)
8 CFR287.8(b)(1)
8 CFR287.8(b)(2)
us. v. Vega, 72 F. 3d 507 (7th Cir, 1995)
us. v. McCarthy, 77 F. 3d 522 (1st Cir. 1996).
SAUL ORNELAS and ISMAEL ORNELAS-
T 1<'ll1r(!M.d. 'PDfitinun ....
I<,:EACADEMY 7118/2006
ALIEN ENCOUNTERS 3
./
----------------------------------------------------~ARTIC~ANTGUIDE
LEDESMA, Petitioners,
v. UNITED STATES, 517 U.S. 690 (1996)
8 CFR 287.8(c)
3. The final category is the full-scale arrest. 'Which must be based on probable cause. A warrant should be obtained unless the ICE officer has reason to believe that the person is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained, i.e. An alien present in the United States in violation of the INA with few ties to the community.
B. Purpose of Questioning Subjects
1. To effectively apprehend illegal aliens during the course of an investigation, the ICE officer/agent will have to question individuals using one of the aforementioned encounters, One of the more common encounters used is the consensual encounter; therefore, a casual and friendly approach will generally assist in obtaining a more favorable result.
2. Although not mandatory at this stage, the officer may want to identify himself/herself at this time. The officer should never assume that the person encountered knows who he/she is, even if they are plainly identified. By identifying himselflherself, the officer ensures that the alien knows that they have encountered a member oflaw enforcement and adverse actions on their part, i.e., lying or assaultive behavior, may have ramifications. Should the officers choose not to identify themselves at this time: such adverse actions may be difficult to later prosecute.
3. Although the purpose of this questioning is to determine whether the individual encountered is in the United States in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the questioning may begin in a much more benign manner to obtain additional articulable facts (language ability, accents etc.); however, the goal of the questioning, usually to establish alienage and removability, should not be lost. .
c. Establishing alienage
./
INS v. Delgado, 466 U.S. 210 (1984)
Terry v. Ohio, 392 us, 1, 19 n.16 (1968)
ICE ACADEMY 7/1812006
ALIEN ENCOm.:'TERS 4
--------------~,,---.,,------------------------------~ARTICWANTGIDDE
1 . The question used to ascertain the alienage of an
individual is "Of what country" are you a citizen?" This question enables the officer to obt;a,in a clear an4 unambiguous declaration of ci~~p.,' ".
2. If the subject informs :'he agent that he/she is a citizen of a country other than the, U~ted. States; questioning will continue to determine removability. " At this time'
the officer has enough infon.n,atlon to establish '
reasonable suspicion and detain the individual pending a determination of removability, if this level of encounter has not already been reached.
3. If the subject informs the officer that he/she is a citizen of the United States, and the officer believes him/her,
questioning will terminate. If not, the officer may continue questioning for as long as the subject permits (consensual), until the agent has the reasonable suspicion backed by articulable facts to justify a brief investigatory inquiry or until the agent has probable
cause to effect an arrest. If an officer does not have enough articulable facts to detain the subject and the person wants to end the conversation; the officer must
allow the person to leave. If a reasonable person would not believe they have the ability to leave; as above, the encounter is no longer consensual and may be subject to 4th amendment requirements.
us. v. Karaouni, 379 F.3d 1139 (9th Cir. 2004)
" R~JDember that u.s.
Citizens are not required to carry proof of citizenship!
8C:FR287.8(b)
Floridav.
Royer, 460 U.S. 491 (1983)
). I
ICE ACADEMY 711812006
ALmN ENCOUNTERS 5
D. Removability
----------------------------------------------------~ARTIC~ANTGUIDE
" 1. Once it is established that the subject is a citizen of a foreign country, the agent needs to determine if the subject is an illegal alien and therefore removable. The alien" would be considered to be removable if the subject was not lawfully admitted to the United States or after la-wful admission, the subject violated his lawful immigration status.
2. The aforementioned two categories of aliens are referred to as: "
i.
Inadmissible - alien is not or has never been lawfully admitted to the U.S. (i.e. EWI, fraudulent documents at admission)
212(a) of the INA
Deportable - alien has been 237(a) of the INA
lawfully admitted to the U.S., but
has violated his lawful
immigration status. (i.e. Criminal,
Overstay, etc.)
11.
3. If the subject claims that he/she is lawfully present in the United States, he/she should be able to prove hislher claim by producing a document, i.e., passport, 1-551,1-586, EAD, etc.; otherwise, failure to do so is a misdemeanor violation under 8 USC 1304( e). Should this take place, subject may be held as an investigative inquiry while the ICE officer verifies the subject's claim via the LESC, Sector, the officer's duty station or awaiting the alien's documents to be brought to the location,
etc. .
4. If the alien claims that he is" in the United States unlawfully or that it has been proven "that
. 8 USC 1304(e) would rarely' be accepted for prosecution.
Individuals that present their documentation may be queried as it is commonplace that individuals that have been deported or who have committed serious crimes retain their documents.
ICE ACADEMY· 7/18/2006
ALIEN ENCOUI','TERS 6
----------------------------------------------------~ARTI~ANTGmDE
he has somehow violated his status and is now deportable, the subject may now, if not already done, be placed under arrest as probable cause exists.
E. Arrest
1. At the time of the arrest, the designated immigration officer shall, as soonas it is practical and safe to do so:
i,
Identify himse1flherself as an immigration officer who is authorized to execute an arrest Inform the subject that they' are under arrest and the reason for the arre~.
ii.
And
2. In the case of an administrative arrest:
i.
in the case of an alien arrested without warrant under the authority of section 287(a)(2)of the INA. have the alien examined by another qualified officer. If satisfied that there is primae facie evidence that the alien is in the United States in violation of the INA, take appropriateaction to properly process the ~en for removal, ie., Serve 1..;'862 for 240 case, L~ffci fcir'VW'p violator, 1-
8'71 for reinstatement, etc. '
Notify the alien of the reasons for his arrest, provide a list of free legal services and inform that he/she may be represented at no expense to the government and inform the alien that any statement made by the alien may be used against him/her,
Within 48 hours of arrest, unless voluntary departure has been gran.}ed or in theevem of an emergency or e~o:r~
ii.
iii.
8 CFR 2$7.8(c)(2)
8 CFR 287.3
ICE ACADEMY 7/18/2006
ALIEN ENCOUNTERS 7
--------------------------------------------------~ARTIC~ANTGUIDE
\ )
situation, notify the alien of the custody determination and whether a notice to appear and warrant of arrest will be issued.
3. In the case of a criminal arrest:
1.
advise the person of the appropriate rights required by law at the time of the arrest or as soon after as practical, ensure that the rights were given to the alien in a language that he/she understands, ensure that the rights were understood and document the fact that the person has been made aware ofbislher rights.
Contact an Assistant U.8. Attorney to arrange for an initial appearance and without unnecessary delay the person must be brought before a United States Magistrate Judge, District Judge or if necessary a judicial officer ' empowered in accordance with 18 USC 3041 charged to commit persons charged with such crimes.
8 CFR 287.8(c)(v) and (vi)
The AUSA must be contacted prior to verify if the US Government will prosecute the case in question. This action is called presenting a case for prosecution. If prosecution is deellned by the AUSA the case wiD not be forwarded
to the courts; otherwise, the . initial appearance is the
next step.
ICE ACADEMY 7/1812006
ii.
ALIEN ENCOUNTERS 8
--------------------------------------------------~ARTlc~ANTGUIDE
ID. SUMMARY REVIEW QUESTIONS
1. What are the three types of LEO-public encounters?
2. What is the primary question asked ill order to ascertaina person's citizenship?
3. What is the main purpose in questioning an alien?
4. What are the two categories of removable aliens? Explain the difference.
5. What are the.first two things that an officer must do when placing an alien under arrest, as soon as it is safe and practical to do so?
ICE ACAnEMY 7/f8/2006
ALIENENCOUNTEru. 9

Close This

Scribd

About

Press

Jobs

Contact

Blog

Scribd Store

Legal

Terms - General

Terms - API

Terms - Privacy

Copyright

Help & Tools

Getting Started

Community Guidelines

Support & FAQ

Scribd Mobile

Partners

Partners / Publishers

Branded Reader

Developers / API

Subscribe to Us

On Scribd

On Twitter

On Facebook

Enter your email address:

or

What's New

Branded Reader

Multi-file Uploader

