

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Federal Crime Victim Assistance

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook &ndash Federal Crime Victim Assistance
J Cox
For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564
14
969
11 / 01 / 2009

Government Docs

http://s6.scribdassets.com/images/filetypes/pdf_16x16.gif?1288814780

-->

Scribd

Upload a Document

Explore

Documents
Books - Fiction
Books - Non-fiction
Health & Medicine
Brochures/Catalogs
Government Docs
How-To Guides/Manuals
Magazines/Newspapers
Recipes/Menus
School Work
+ all categories

Featured
Recent

People
Authors
Students
Researchers
Publishers
Government & Nonprofits
Businesses
Musicians
Artists & Designers
Teachers
+ all categories

Most Followed
Popular

-->

Sign Up

|

Log In

From: J Cox

+ Subscribe

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Federal Crime Victim Assistance

Scribd Archive > Charge to your Mobile Phone Bill

Reading should be social! Post a message on your social networks to let others know what you're reading. Select the sites below and start sharing.

Readcast this Document

Recent Activity

Share & Embed

Related Documents

Previous Next

118 p.

302 p.

8 p.

26 p.

2 p.

31 p.

4 p.

16 p.

38 p.

26 p.

60 p.

2 p.

32 p.

4 p.

1 p.

29 p.

194 p.

More from this user

Previous Next

21 p.

24 p.

22 p.

21 p.

21 p.

3 p.

2 p.

7 p.

28 p.

34 p.

94 p.

21 p.

28 p.

4 p.

10 p.

14 p.

6 p.

11 p.

3 p.

2 p.

3 p.

3 p.

3 p.

3 p.

3 p.

Featured on Scribd

2 p.

Bank of America's Comments on 1...
From: TheBusinessInsider
Reads: 322

26 p.

HISTORY AND TRAVEL: NAPOLEON A...
From: John Tarttelin
Reads: 3,625

32 p.

Delaware Ruling in JetDirect Case
From: DealBook
Reads: 119

5 p.

Biker Party
From: Luke James
Reads: 317

9 p.

2010 Mid Term Elections Health ...
From: porternovelli
Reads: 693

48 p.

Sears Black Friday Ads
From: BlackFridayFM
Reads: 843

3 p.

Adam Carolla's Bathroom Etiquet...
From: Crown Publishing ...
Reads: 373

9 p.

CNBC Transcript: Julian Roberts...
From: CNBC
Reads: 736

444 p.

MacBook For Dummies
From: Wiley
Reads: 1,354

257 p.

Signing Their Lives Away
From: ChronicleBooks
Reads: 1,072

2 p.

10 Things You Didn't Know About...
From: RHPG
Reads: 1,474

6 p.

Grieving Daddy's Death
From: Hyla Molander
Reads: 4,047

4 p.

Roman Zombies? Halloween Blog
From: Philip Katz
Reads: 2,219

8 p.

The Sword in the Cellar -- the ...
From: meghanth
Reads: 1,467

36 p.

State Of The Blogosphere Presen...
From: TechCrunch
Reads: 3,084

7 p.

President Barack Obama Press Co...
From: Zim Vicom
Reads: 1,470

11 p.

Request-AOL Q3 2010 Earnings Pr...
From: TechCrunch
Reads: 1,192

14 p.

MGM's Bankruptcy Petition
From: DealBook
Reads: 2,060

115 p.

The Reencounter
From: hellasangel
Reads: 1,723

9 p.

The Emperor of All Maladies by ...
From: Simon and Schuster
Reads: 1,256

113 p.

performance tweaks and tools fo...
From: ice799
Reads: 3,002

6 p.

Why Bill Simmons thinks you sho...
From: RHPG
Reads: 1,734

﻿287g --- Lesson Plan Overview
Course
Federal Crime Victim Assistance
Course Purpose
To provide participants with information
about federal law enforcement's
responsibilities to crime victims
Field Performance
Students will demonstrate knowledge of
applicable statutes and responsibilities to
victims.
Interim (Training) Performance Objectives
1. Identify federal victim statutes and
primary responsibilities of officers and
agents to victims
2.
Identify benefits available to victims of
human trafficking
3.
Identify victims of crime who should not
be processed for remova1ldeportation
and prohibited locations for arrests of
certain aliens who mi2b.t be victims
Instructional Methods'
Two hour lecture
Method of Evaluation
Multiple Choice Examination
Training Aids
Power Point, LCD, Video, Handouts
I. Introduction
In order to understand basic rights for victims of federal crime, it is essential to understand the principles of federal and state, and immigration court jurisdiction. The federal court system is based upon the principle of federalism. Our nation's founders wanted states to retain significant autonomy from federal control. Under this concept of federalism, the U.S. developed a loose confederation of semi-independent states having their own laws and courts, with the federal court system acting in a limited mariner. Jurisdiction simply means the ability of a court to enforce laws and punish individuals who violate their laws.
A dual system of federal and state courts exists today. Therefore, federal and state courts may have concurrent jurisdiction over specific crimes -like bank robbery. While state courts have their origin in historical custom, the. U.S. Constitution created Federal courts. Federal District Courts are the lowest level of the federal court system. There are 94 Federal Districts and the chief prosecutor in those courts is the United States Attorney. Each U.S. Attorney is appointed by the President and confirmed by the U.S. Congress.
Federal agents present violations of federal law to federal courts for prosecution. Victims of those crimes have specific rights articulated in federal statute.' Statutes regarding specific federal crimes like human trafficking provide additional rights and services to victims, even if the victims are illegal aliens. Other federal laws prohibit civil immigration arrests of victims in certain circumstances.
Immigration courts are civil administrative courts that focus onthe legal or illegal presence of an individual in the United States. It is not a criminal court and does not deal with the prosecution of criminal acts. ICE attorneys seek deportation orders from the court and then seek to deport the individuals to their home country .. Many aliens are restricted to ICE detention centers while their cases are being heard in immigration conrtscIt might be possible that a crime victim is inadvertently held in detention. Because law enforcement officers are "first responders' to many crimes and serve in correctional facilities, these officers and agents serve a primary role in identifying and providing immediate intervention and assistance to victims of crime.
n. Federal Victims' Statutes
1111982, a Presidential Task Force was established to examine the treatment of victims and witnesses in the.United States .. The.Task Force traveled to six cities, heard testimony from more than 1000 victims and victim ·acivocatesand analyzed hundreds of crime victimization studies. In 1983, the Task Force Report presented tj8 recommendations for law enforcement, prosecutors, judges and parole Officials; public policy makers, private sector leaders, therapists, educators, physicians, and clergy, The recommendations centered around three basic themes: needs of victims, victim crisis, and victim involvement in the criminal justice system. The task force report served as a national blueprint for action - resulting in several key pieces of federal legislation for crime victim rights and services.
The Victim and Witness Protection Act 00982 (VWPA) was enacted "to enhance and protect the necessary role of crime victims and witnesses in the criminal justice process; to ensure that the federal government does all that is possible within limits of available resources to assist victims and witnesses of crime without infringing on the constitutional rights of the defendants; and to provide a model for legislation for state and local governments." The VWP A was considered landmark legislation in 1982 because, for the first time, rights for victims offederal crimes were established, including:
• The fair treatment of victims and witnesses in the federal criminal justice system
• The.ught to jnclude,impa9t statements in pre-sentence reports. . ,
• New criminal penalties to protect victims and witnesses from intimidation, harassment,
and retaliation, including provisions for civil restraining orders
• Restitution for victims
• Consideration for victims' interest in bail decisions
• Requirement that all federal law enforcement training academies include victim assistance education and training
One of the most important provisions of the VWP A was the 'requirement that the Attorney General issue "guidelines for fair treatment of crime victims and witnesses in the criminal justice system" and that all other federal1aw enforcement agencies outside of the Department of Justice (DOJ) adopt similar guidelines.
In 1983, Attorney Getreral William French Smith issued the first Attorney General Guidelines for Victim and Witness Assistance (AG Guidelines). The AG Guidelines incorporated victim and witness assistance concepts beyond those articulated in the VWP A.
In particular, the AG Guidelines included pertinent recommendations of the President's Task Force on Victims of Crime. The former Immigration and Naturalization Service was an agency within the Depart of Justice at the time and was required to provide services according to the AG Guidelines.
The 1983 AG Guidelines defined the term victim as "someone who suffers direct or tbreatened physical, emotional, or financial harm as the result of the commission of a federal crime .. The term includes the immediate family of a minor or homicide victim." The AG Guidelines also articulated that federal officials should ensure that victims receive:
• Referral services to emergency medical and social services
• Information about
o Crime victim compensation
o The availability of public or private programs that provide counseling, treatment,
or support
o Steps that may be taken to protect the victim from intimidation
o The arrest or formal charging of the accused
o Scheduling changes affecting their appearance at judicial proceedings
o The release or detention status of the accused
o The acceptance of a plea or the results of a trial
o The date set for sentencing of the defendant and sentence imposed
o The opportunity to address the court at time of sentencing • Consultation services
o DOJ should consult victims regarding their views about release of accused pending trial, decision to not seek and indictment, dismissal of charges, terms of a negotiated plea
• Other services
o Avoid (to extent possible) disclosing the addresses ofvictitns and witnesses
o Offer separate waiting areas for victims
o Return victims' property as promptly as possible
o Notification of victims , employers if cooperation with investigation or prosecution of the crime causes absence from work
o Provide information about transportation, parking, and translator services
o Pay for costs associated with sexual assault exams
• Right to provide a victim impact statement at time of sentencing
• Restitution
All components of the Department of Justice were required to provide training to their employeesconcerning their responsibilities and the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center at Glynco, Georgia was required to add victim assistance to the core curricula for federal agents and officers.
The Victims of Crime Act 0{1984 (vOCA) was passed two years after the VWP A to provide funding for victim assistance, victim compensation, and training and technical assistance to victim service providers across the nation.
VOCA's innovative funding mechanism relies on fines, penalties, and bond forfeitures from convicted federal offenders - not taxpayers - to generate an annual Crime Victims Fund. Congress directed DOJ's Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) to distribute the funding to states and u.s. territories to assist in expanding compensation and assistance to crime victims nationwide. Since 1986, when monies from the Crime Victims Fund were first distributed to states, over $5.8 billion has been collected from federal offenders and sept to state agencies to provide victim assistance and compensation. Simply, federal agents and prosecutors are responsible for the criminal cases that result in monies into the Crime Victims Fund and victims in the 50 states and U.S Territories are the beneficiaries.
One important VOCA provision is the requirement that victims of federal crimes must be eligible for state compensation benefits in order for state compensation programs to receive federal Crime Victim Fund awards. Following the enactment ofVOCA, many state legislatures amended their state Iaws to include federal crime.victims ~ .eligible claimants . .Today, victims of federal crime in all states are eligible to file compensation clrums to the state compensation program where the crime occurred. '
The Crime Control Act of1990 contained extensive amendments to the federal rules of criminal procedure affecting treatment of child victims and witnesses and created a Federal Crime Victim Bill of Rights [Title V. the Victims Rights and Restitution Act (YRR.A) 42 U.S.C. 10606].1 The enactment was historic and paralleled legislative activity in the states. The law stated that "federal officials shall make their best efforts to see that victims of crime are accorded the following rights:
• The right to be treated with fairness and with respect for your dignity and privacy.
• The right to be reasonably protected from the accused offender.
• The right to be notified of court proceedings.
• The right to be present at all public court proceedings relatyp. to the offense, unless the court determines that your testimony would be, materially affected if you heard other testimony at trial.
• The right to confer with the attorney for the Government in the case.
• The right to restitution.
• The right to information about the conviction, sentencing, imprisonment; and release of the offender.
The VRRA stated that all the victim services that the VWPA of 1982 had indicated "should" be provided to victims under existing resources must be provided. This mandatory provision of services affects all officers and agents and iseodified at 42 U.S.C. 1 06()7.
I The United States Code (U.S. C.) is a compilation offederal criminal statutes.
The Violent Crime Control and Law EnfOrcement Act 0[1994 established several new federal victims' rights and passed the historic Violence Against Women Act which included provisions for victims of domestic violence to be heard at a pre-trial release hearing of a defendant and made restitution mandatory for inter-jurisdictional domestic violence and stalking. The 1994 law also included payment for anonymous and confidential testing and counseling for sexually transmitted diseases for sexual assault survivors, provided for allocutiorr' at sentencing for victims of crimes of violence and sexual abuse, and provided for mandatory restitution in interstate domestic violence and stalking cases, certain sexual offenses, sexual exploitation of children, and telemarketing fraud.
The Violence Against Women Act 00994 (VAWA) permitted battered immigrant women who were married to U.S. Citizens and Legal Permanent Residents to leave their batterers without fearing deportation. The law created a category of V A W A self-petitioners to enable battered women and children to :file for immigration status without the abuser's sponsorship. Simply, this means that a battered alien spouse married to the U.S. citizen or Legal Permanent Resident may apply for immigration status without the sponsorship of the abusing spouse. The law also created a VA W A suspension of deportation relief to assist battered women and their children in deportation proceedings.
,/
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (lJRAIRA) 1996 created victim safety protections for immigration victims of domestic violence. It prohibited reliance on abuser-furnished information whether or not a woman had ever filed a specific VAWA related case. The law also created VA W A confidentiality protections prohibiting use by or disclosure to anyone of information relating to: (1) vA W A petitioners and their children, and (2) VA W A applicants for battered spouse waivers for conditional pernianent resident status.
The Mandatory Victims Restitution Act 0[1996 amended the federal criminal code to require federal judges to order mandatory restitution' for victims of violent crime, certain property offenses, fraud, and consumer product tampering. Restitution may also be granted to victims that are not the specific victim of the offense, resulting in a conviction, provided that the parties . agree to that in a plea agreement.
The Victims' Rights and Clarification Act of1997 expanded the rights of victims to attend and observe trial stating that victims shall not be excluded simply because the victim may, during the sentencing hearing, make a statement. This right included capital murder cases from which victims had previously been excluded if they were going to present a victim impact statement.
2 Allocution is the right of a victim to appear in person and speak to present a victim impact statement Prior to 1994, victim impact statements were provided in writing as part of the pre-sentence report.
3 Restitution is the payment of crime-related expenses to a victim by an offender who is convicted of the crime.
Justice for All Act of2004 repealed the list of crime victims' rights in 42 U.S.C. §10606 and replaced it.with a.modified list codified at 18 U.S.C. 3771. The act, which was very significant for federal crime victims' rights, added two new victims' rights. The most notable is the new right of all victims to be reasonably heard at Jmy public proceeding involving release, plea, or sentencing. The Act also requires federal prosecutors to advise victims they can seek the advise of an attorney with respect to their rights.
1. The right to be reasonably protected from the accused
2. The right to reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of any public court proceeding involving the crime or of any release or escape of the accused
3. The right not to be excluded from any such public court proceeding, unless the court determines that testimony by the victim would be materially affected if thy victim heard
other testimony at that proceeding .
4. The rightto be reasonably. heard at any public proceeding involving release, plea, or
sentencing
5. The reasonable right to confer with the attorney for the Government in the case
6. The right to full and timely restitution as-providedin law
7. The right to proceedings free from unreasonable delay
8. The right to be treated with fairness and with respect for the victim's dignity and privacy
The Act requires' that officers and employees of federal agencies make their best efforts to notify , victimsof'theserights. The Act also created several enforcement mechanisms, A victim can make a motionto compel in federal district court if the victim believes the government has not recognized the-victim's rights. If after making a motion, the victim still is not satisfied, the victim may file a petition for a writ of mandamus, with the Court of Appeals. The Court must issue a decision within 72 hours. The Act does not provide grounds for a new trial, but does allow victims to file motions to reopen a plea or a sentence in certain circumstances.
The Act provides for disciplinary sanctions, including suspension or termination from employment; for employees of the Department of Justice" who wi11fu11y or wantonly fail to comply with provisions of the Justice for All Act. The Act also directed the. Attorney General to designate an official ombudsman to receive and investigate complaints relating to the provisions
or violations of federal crime victims' rights. '; ,
The Act also redefines the term "victim" as it relates to "rights." A victim is "a person directly and proximately harmed as a result of the commission of a Federal offense or an offense in the District of Columbia." This definition is different than the one provided in 42 U.S.C. § 1 0607 for the provision of victim services to those who have suffered "direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm."
4 The statute is drafted that only Depa.rt:Jnent of Justice employees can be sanytioned. ICE and other federai law enforcement agencies are not mentioned.
/ m. Responsibilities of Officers/Agents to Victims
Federal officers and agents must provide victims with notice of the statutory rights listed above. The most common manner to provide this information is through distribution of the ICE "Information for Victims of Crime" brochure.
Federal officers and agents must also provide the services contained in 42 U.S.C. 10607. Identification of victims
At the earliest opportunity after the detection of a crime at which it may be done without interfering with an investigation, a responsible official shall--
• Identify the victim or victims of a crime;
• Inform the victims of their right to receive, on request; the services described in this section; and
• Inform each victim of the name, title, and business address and telephone number of the responsible official to whom the victim should address a request for services.
Description of services
A responsible official shall-
• Inform a victim of the place where the victim may receive emergency medical and social services
• Inform a victim of any restitution or where such relief may be obtained;
• Inform a victim of public and private programs that are available to provide counseling, treatment, and other support to the victim; and
• Assist a victim in contacting the persons who are responsible for providing the services and relief
A responsible official shall arrange for a victim to receive reasonable protection from a suspected offender and persons acting in concert with or at the behest of the suspected offender.
During the investigation and prosecution of a crime, a responsible official shall provide a victim the earliest possible notice of.-
• The status of the investigation of the crime, to the extent it is appropriate to inform the victim and to the extent that it will not interfere with the investigation;
• The arrest of a suspected offender.
At all times, a responsible official shall ensure that any property of a victim that is being held for Evidentiary purposes be maintained in good condition and returned to the victim as soon as it is no longer needed for evidentiary purposes.
The Attorney General or the head of another department or agency that conducts an investigation of a sexual assault shall pay, either directly or by reimbursement of payment by the victim, the cost of a physical examination of the victim which an investigating officer determines was necessary or useful for evidentiary purposes.
The Attorney General shall provide for the payment of the cost of up to two anonymous and confidential tests of the victim for sexually transmitted diseases, including HN, gonorrhea, herpes, chlamydia, and syphilis, during the 12 months following sexual assaults that pose a risk of transmission, and the cost of a counseling session by a medically trained professional on the accuracy of such tests and the risk of transmission of sexually transmitted diseases to the victim as the result of the assault.
A victim may waive anonymity and confidentiality of any tests paid for under this section.
Definitions
"Responsible official" means a person designated pursuant to subsection (a) of this section to perform the functions of a responsible official under that section; and
"Victim" means a person that has suffered direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of the commission of a crime, including--
• In the case of a victimthat is an institutional entity, an authorized representative of the
entity; and .
• In the case of a vic~ who is under 18 years of age, incompetent, incapacitated, or
deceased, one of the following (in order of preference):
o A spouse; .,
o A legal guardian;
o A parent;
o A child;
o Asibling;
o Another family member; or
o Another person designated .by ~e court.
ICE officers and agents are responsible for providing the listed rights and services articulated above. Other services are provided by Victim-Witness Coordinators assigned to offices of United States Attorneys or the Federal Bureau of Prisons,
All federal law enforcement agencies implement victim assistance programs. ICE's Victim Assistance Program is located within the Office of Investigations in Washington, DC. Over 300 collateral duty special agents are assigned victim assistance duties in ICE field offices.
ICE maintains a toll free telephone for crime victims. 1-886-872-4973.
IV.
Human Trafficking and other Victims
Each year over 700,000 individuals are moved within and across international borders for slavery like conditions. Traffickers lure individuals into their networks through false promises of decent working conditions and then transport them from their home communities to unfamiliar destinations including foreign countries where they do not speak the language and are distant from family and friends = leaving the victims defenseless and vulnerable.
It is estimated that 14,500-17,000 women and children are brought into the u.s. each year where they are coerced or forced to work in the commercial sex trade or forced labor situations. Existing laws had failed to protect victims because the victims are often illegal aliens who may not access health care, housing, education, and legal assistance. Victims of trafficking are often unfamiliar with U.S. laws, culture, language and are subjected to coercion and intimidation including physical detention and debt bondage and because they fear retribution to their families and removal from the U.s.
The Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of2000 contained several important divisions that impact the response by ICE agents and officers to specific types of crime victims.
Division A: Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVP A) was passed to combat trafficking in persons to ensure just and effective punishment for traffickers, and to protect their victims. Human trafficking is a contemporary manifestation of slavery.
Human trafficking is not the same crime as human smuggling. Smuggling is transportation based and is a violation involving u.s. borders and illegal entry into the United States. Human trafficking involves coerced or forced labor that results in involuntary servitude - in other words, slavery. Under federal law. the technical tenn for modem day slavery or coerced labor is "severe forms of trafficking in persons." There are two types of human trafficking: forced labor and sex trafficking.
• Forced labor
o Recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services,
o Through the use of force, fraud, or coercion, for the purpose of subjecting that person to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery.
• Sex Trafficking
o Recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for a commercial sex act
o Induced by force, fraud, or coercion or
o In which the person induced to perform such an act is under 18 yrs. of age.
Human trafficking often involves illegal aliens who may have agreed to be smuggled into the U.S. and have violated immigration laws. However, the Thirteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution strictly outlaws slavery.
Public benefits and services: The TVP A allows victims who are illegal aliens to be eligible for a number of public benefits and services. Government funded programs may provide services such as crisis counseling, shelter; and housing to trafficking victims regardless of their immigration status. The manner in which an individual came to the U.S. is irrelevant, e.g., smuggled. In addition; the victim's participation in most illegal activity doesn't disqualify them if the illegal activity is connected to human trafficking, e.g., prostitution.
Human trafficking victims are eligible to remain in the U.S. even though they may have no immigration status. Their legal presence in the U.S. will be determined by the circumstances surrounding the victimization and the eligibility requirements of the relief sought. The mechanisms for facilitating their legal presence are:
• Continued Presence (CP): Trafficking victims who are also potential witnesses in a federal investigation or prosecution may receive temporary immigration relief under a provision in the TVP A. Only a federal law enforcement agency may petition the ICE Office of Parole and Humanitarian Assistance Branch for this relief. Victims are provided employment authorization documents (BAns) and either parole or deferred action" to remaininthe u.s. C1> is usually awarded for up to a year and can be renewed by the sponsoring agency. A prosecution does not have to occur for this relief to be awarded, This type of immigration relief is only available to actual victims, not family members. Regulations regarding OP were published in the Federal Register (28 CFR Part 1100) on July 24, 2001.
• T Visa/ A "T" N on-Immigrant Status may be granted to victims of human trafficking; Un1.ike Continued Presence, which is sponsored by a federal law enforcement agent, this immigration relief is self-petitioned by the victim, usually with the help of an immigration attorney. Victims apply to the Vermont Service Center, an agency that is part of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services of the Department of Homeland Security.
An individual must be: (1) a victim of a severe form of trafficking as defined in the federalstatute; (2) physically present in the United States on account of the trafficking; (3) prove that they have complied with reasonable requests from law enforcement agencies in the investigation Of prosecution of acts of trafficking; and (4) show that he or she would suffer extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm ifremovedldeported from the U.S.
There is an optional law enforcement certification form that may be submitted with the application.
5 The phrase immigration relief i.e., ''relief from removal" means that an alien-while determined to be removable from the U.S. will, nevertheless, not have an order of removal executed against him/her.
6 Parole and deferred action are two methods that an alien is allowed to remain in the U.S. for a period of time. Parole is Issued to indiVidlials whdenteredthe U~S. illeglillY. Deferred action is issued to indiViduals who entered the U.S. with valid papers like a tourist or work visa but then violated the conditions of that entry.
7 Note that the term T Visa is a misnomer. It is actually a non-immigrant status. Congress called it a Visa in the statute. Actual visas are issued overseas by the Department of State.
10
Any criminal justice professional (state, local, or federal officer, agent, prosecutor, or judge) may attest that the applicant is a victim of a severe form of trafficking and is cooperating in an investigation or prosecution of the trafficking.
Any juvenile involved in a commercial sex industry is considered a trafficking victim. Juvenile victims of sex trafficking do not have to cooperate with an investigation to receive a T Visa. If a juvenile is found working in a brothel, it is an automatic federal human trafficking violation.
T Visas, last up to four years and at the end of three years, victims may apply for legal permanent resident status. Eventually, they may become U.S. citizens. The U.S. may issue 5,000 T Visas a year.
T Visa applicants, may also petition for family members. Applicants under 21 years of age may petition for their spouse, parents, children, and siblings who are under 21 years of age. Applicants over 21 may petition for their spouse and children.
T Visa holders are referred to non-governmental organizations (NGO) that provide social services and advise the alien regarding options while in the U.S. and resources . . available to the alien. Victims receive EADs and either parole or deferred action.
Nothing prohibits ICE from instituting removal proceedings for a T Visa holder for conduct committed after admission or conduct or condition not disclosed prior to admission as a T nonimmigrant.
T Visa regulations were published in the Federal Register (8 CFR Part 103, et al.) January 31,2002.
• Division B: Violence Against Women Act of 2000 had several broad-reaching sections that impacted ICE and other types of crime victims. The law contained the Battered Immigrant Women Protection Act CBIWP A) which expanded immigration protection for battered aliens and created a 'IOU" Non-Immigrant Status to alien victims of certain criminal activity.
"U" Visa:8 Congress created the U'Visa to provide law enforcement agencies with a means to regularize the status of cooperating victims while comporting with humanitarian interests. Congress found that alien women and children are often targeted for crimes and needed a mechanism for victims to report these crimes to law enforcement and fully participate in investigations without fear of deportation.
0 •• /
8 U Visas are actually a non-immigrant status.
11
Eligibility requirements:
o The alien must have suffered substantial physical and mental abuse as a result of having been the victim of specific criminal activity;
o The alien has been helpful, is being helpful, or is likely to be helpful to a Federal, State, or local prosecutor, to a Federal, State, or local judge, to the DHS, or to other Federal, State, or local authorities investigating or prosecuting the specific criminal activity;
o The criminal activity violated the laws ofthe U.S. or occurred in the u.S. (including Indian Country and military installations) or the territories and , possessions of the u.S.
U Visa specific Crimes -- "include one or more of the following or any similar Activity in violation of Federal, State, or local criminal law"
Rape Torture Trafficking Incest
Domestic Violence Sexual Assault
Abusive Sexual Contact Prostitution
Sexual Exploitation Female Genital Mutilation Being Held Hostage Peonage
Involuntary Servitude Slave Trade
Kidnapping
Unlawful Criminal Restraint False Imprisonment Blackmail
Extortion
, Manslaughter Murder
Felonious Assault Witness tampering Obstruction of Justice Perjury
Attempt, Conspiracy, or Solicitation to commit any of the above mentioned crimes
. .' : ,
• U Visa Petitioning: Aliens file self-petitions (like T Visas) to the Vermont Service
Center. Each application must contain a certification from Federal, State, or local law enforcement official, prosecutor, judge, or other Federal, State, or local authority investigating the specific criminal activity. The certification shall state that the alien "has been helpful, is being helpful, or is likely to be helpful" in the investigation or prosecution of the criminal activity.
• U Visa Limitations: 10,000 per year for principals. DHS may also grant status to spouse and child, or in the case of a child, the parent) if the certifying agency states that an investigation or prosecution would be harmed without the assistance of the spouse,child, or parents. Aliens may adjust to permanent status after 3 years -- based upon humanitarian grounds; to ensure family unity, or is in the public interest unless the alien unreasonably refuses to provide assistance with the criminal investigation and prosecution.
12
The Battered Immigrant Women's Act of 2000 also extended the VA W A immigrant victim safety provisions and VA W A confidentiality protections to U Visa applicants.
V. Crime Victims Who Should Not Be Processed for Removal
The Violence Against Women Act 0(2005 (VAWA 2005) expanded various protections for aliens seeking immigration benefits as crime victims and amended various portions of the hnmigration and Nationality Act. As a result, agents/officers are required to follow new procedures when taking certain actions in cases involving aliens eligible to apply for Violence Against Women Act (VA W A) benefits or T and U N on- Immigrant status.
VA WA 2005 prohibits ICE employees from making an adverse determination of admissibility or deportability of an alien using information furnished solely by certain people associated with the battery, suchas the abuser or member of an abuser's family. An adverse determination would include placing an alien in removal proceedings or making civil arrests relating to an alien's violation of immigration laws.
It is also prohibited to disclose any information about a VA W A, T Visa, or U Visa beneficiary to anyone, especially to those who might use the information to the alien's detriment, e.g. an abuser who may wish to have the victim removed from the United States.
VI. VA W A - Sensitive Locations for Arrest
VAWA 2005 also prohibits enforcement actions at certain sensitive locations unless the Notice to Appear includes a statement that the action is not solely the result of an abuser's information. The sensitive locations include: ,
• A court house (if the alien is appearing in connection with a protection order, child custody, or any civil or criminal case relating to domestic violence, sexual assault, or human trafficking);
• A domestic violence and rape crisis shelter;
• A supervised visitation or family justice center;
• A victim service provider; or
• Community-based organizations.
ICE must certify that the agency has independently verified the inadmissibility or deportability of an alien that was encountered at these locations. Although the law does not specifically prevent ICE agents from making arrests at sensitive locations, in practice - enforcement operations should not be initiated at the specific locations unless the alien is a criminal alien who poses a risk to public safety or national security.
13
VII. Conclusion
Although all States have comprehensive laws regarding victim assistance, federal law may be very different. All victims in federal crin:rinal investigations have statutory rights and need to be referred for victim services. And some illegal aliens who are victims of crime may have certain statutory rights that "trump=immigration arrests.
State law enforcement officers cross-trained with immigration authority, whether in jail settings or task forces, should become familiar with federal laws to ensure that applicable federal crime victims are provided with information about their rights and provided services.
14

About

Statistics

Reads:
969

Rated:

Published:
11 / 01 / 2009

Category:

Government Docs

Add to Collections

Report this document

Description:

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Show More

Description:

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Tags:

ice , immigration , FOIA , dhs , immigration and customs enforcement , department of homeland security , 287g , 287(g) , immigration enforcement , implement crime , federal crime , crime victims , restitution , statute , victims protection , regulations , victims law , act , trafficking victims

Copyright:

Attribution Non-commercial

OCR:

Document OCR 'd by Scribd

- Show less

Login to Add a Comment

Sign up
Use your Facebook login and see what your friends are reading and sharing.

Other login options Login with Facebook

Signup
I don't have a Facebook account

email address (required)

create username (required)

password (required)

Send me the Scribd Newsletter, and occasional account related communications.

Privacy policy

You will receive email notifications regarding your account activity. You can manage these notifications in your account settings.
We promise to respect your privacy.

Why Sign up?

Discover and connect with people of similar interests.

Publish your documents quickly and easily.

Share your reading interests on Scribd and social sites.

Already have a Scribd account?

email address or username

password

Trouble logging in?

Login Successful
Now bringing you back...

« Back to Login

Reset your password

Please enter your email address below to reset your password. We will send you an email with instructions on how to continue.

Email address:

You need to provide a login for this account as well.

Login:

Upload a Document

Follow Us!
scribd.com/scribd
twitter.com/scribd
facebook.com/scribd
About
Press
Blog
Partners
Scribd 101
Web Stuff
Scribd Store
Support
FAQ
Developers / API
Jobs
Terms
Copyright
Privacy

