

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alien Processing

-->

Scribd

Upload a Document

Search Documents

Explore

Documents
Books - Fiction
Books - Non-fiction
Health & Medicine
Brochures/Catalogs
Government Docs
How-To Guides/Manuals
Magazines/Newspapers
Recipes/Menus
School Work
+ all categories

Featured
Recent

People
Authors
Students
Researchers
Publishers
Government & Nonprofits
Businesses
Musicians
Artists & Designers
Teachers
+ all categories

Most Followed
Popular

-->

Sign Up

|

Log In

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Alien Processing

﻿PARTICIPANT W9RKBOOK

[ Course

Course Purpose

Through lecture this lesson presents the procedure and forms f

1 used to interview and process aliens in a variety of situations. 1

I The practical exercise provides an opportunity to interview and .

)' PffiroCes5j aliens in realistic situations encountered by the ICE 1.

o cer agenr, I

[

j

I Field Performance

I Presented with an alien in a simulated situation, who. meets the

I Objective criteria for inadmissibility or deportability. the ICE officer/agent t

will conduct all essential elements to effect the removal, I

according to ICE statutes, policy and procedure. ,

Interim (Training) L IdentifY the basic ICE forms utilized in processing a

Perform.anee Objectives removable alien.

2. Identify the role of the A·File in alien processing.

3. Complete a Record oflnadmissibleIDeportable Alien

(1-21.3).

4. Conduct an interview of a removable alien and complete a

Sworn Statement (I-21SC &I·263A&B). I

5. Complete a Notice to Appear and Bond/Custody Processing !

Sheet (1-265). .. j

6. Complete ICE processing forms':and serve a Notice to'

Appear (1-862).

Instructional Methods. Two Hour Lecture, Four Hour Laboratory I

I

Method of Evaluation Multiple Choice Examinatica, Alien Processing Laboratory,

Criminal Aliens Laboratory

Student Materials! Participant Workbook ,

References I

ICON LEGEND

~ft 1@=IDI Q&A

- C

-

- -

-

~

Show Ovemead Conduct Exm:.ise Play Videotape Dis!ribme Conduct Quiz I Question and Answer

Transpare!lCy Handout Period ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

. }\.LIEN PROCESSING

1

----------------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

I I. INTRODUCTION

A. Purpose of Course

1. Many situations will require the ICE officer/agent to process unauthorized aliens for voluntary departure or removal proceedings:

a. ACAP Operations

b. Upon request by outside law enforcement agency

c. Fugitive Operations

2. ICE, like many federal government agencies, uses forms to ensure that recorded information is complete and uniform,

3. It is imperative that the ICE officer/agent use time and care to complete these forms as accurately and completely as possible. Properly executed fOnDS will provide evidence for successful administrative and crim.i.n8.l prosecution. Also, diligence in doing the job correctly Will impact on personal performance and Success as

an ICE officer/agent. .

4. Properly executed forms become the basis for administrative proceedings.

B. Objectives

The objectives for this course are as follows:

1. Identify the basic ICE forms utilized in processing a removable alien.

2. Identify the role of the A-File in alien processing.

3. Complete a Record ofInadmissible!Deportable Alien

(1-213). .

4. Conduct an interview: of a removable alien and complete

a Sworn Statement (1-21SC & 1-263A&B).,· .

5. Completea Notice to Appear and Bond/Custody' Processing Sheet (1-265).

6. Complete ICE processing forms and serve a Notice, to Appear (1-862).

,' .

.. ....

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

~~ PROCESSING.

2

PARTICZY ANT WORKBOOK

)

Il, INITIAL STEPS - RECORD CHECKS - A-FILE CREATION

A. Perform appropriate records checks (i.e.: etc.).

NFORCEMENT PROCEDURES AND INvESTIGATIVE TECHNI

B. If record checks reveal that an "A" number/file exists on the subject,

obtain: the file from the listed File Control Office. .

1. A temporary file may be created until the original file is obtained.

C;' Ap. A-File' is needed in order to process an alien for removal.

D. The A-File Will be used to house all documents 'and evidence related to the processing of the alien for' removal. It provides a permanent, retrievable record of Subject's history with ICE.

E. If an alien is being processed and no file exists, create an A-File.

)

ID. PLACEMENT OF MATERIALS IN A-FILE

A. File material will be arranged chronologically, oldest on the bottom, using ACCU fasteners to hold documents to file folder.

B. 'On the inside left-hand side of the file, insert the record of proceedings (NT A), official aclioiiS;:arid any Iilis~nari.~bui; correspondence.

C. On the inside right-hand side of the file, insert the paperwork required to initiate the action (1-213, I-263, I-217, 1-43, etc.), and passport and visa material along With any other lifted identity documents. Confidential attorney and docket officer notes are also placed on the right-hand side ..

D. Duplicate material should not be Included unless it is likely to be needed. It should be placed in an envelope marked "Duplicate Material."

E. If the file contains past ICE actions, present apprehension materials will be placed on top of the. older material.

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALIENPROCES$IN(3

3

----------------- PARTICIPANTWORKBOOK

f.

F. Do Dot remove any record material contained in an A-File.

Unauthorized removal, for personal use or the use of another, of any record material contained in an ICE case file may be subject to penalties set forth in 18 USC 641.

O. Do not remove A-Files from your office without aut~ority.

Occasionally, the original A-File will need to be reviewed by other branches onCE.

H. If the file becomes too bulky, have the records unit start a new file jacket. Number the original jacket ttl" and, the subsequent jackets IlII", "Ill", and so on. All new mat~a! should be placed in the most recent jacket.

1. Placement order of processing/action documents is as follows (Bottom to Top. A complete list can. be found in the appendix.):

Left Side

Right Side

\ I /

1-200- WA

1-286 - Custody Determination 1-220A - Order ofROR

1-862 or 1-:210-- NTA or OSC

1-205 or 1-8SIA - Warrant of Removal 1-294 - Warning to Ali~ Removed I-220B - Order of Supervision

Fingerprints PassportNisa

Repord Check Printouts Documentary Evidence 1-217

G-197

1-263A

1-21SC or 1-263B 1-826; etc, - Rights 1-213 .

I-265

G-166C(s)

G-176

J. Remember: All documents will not apply In every situation.

K. If a G-28 is submitted, it will go on the left side of the file, as received.

L: Photographs will be attached directly to the inside of the file folder on bottom left side, or as dictated by Field Office policy.

/

18 USC641- relates to theft of public property or records.

At least one set of

,

four photos must be

attached to the file. . The Consuls do not accept computergenerated photos.

ICE ACADEMY 811212004

. ALIEN PROCESSING

4

----------------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

IV. ALIEN PROCESSING DOCUMENTS...,. PROCESSING FORMS

The following forms are used to process an apprehended alien. The reason the alien is removable and/or the type of action anticipated will determine forms used during processing. (See flowchart in appendix.)

A. NOTICE OF RIGHTS AND REQUEST FOR DISPOS~ON (I-826)

1. This is the first form provided to an <appreh,ende.d alien whenever the alien is eligible for a Sectio .. 240 ~ID.O"al hearing

(before an Immigration judge). < <

2. Form 1-826 provides notification of the alien's acb.niniStrati.verightS,

and allows the alien to request: <

a. A 240 removal hearing.

b. Asylum to be determined at the conclusion of a 240 removal hearing.

c. Waiver of 240 removal bearing in lieu of Voluntary Departure. <

3. Form 1-826 is signed and dated by the alien. The issuing officer will complete the Certification of Service, located at the bottem of the

form. '

B. REQUEST FOR DISPOSmON (I..s27A,< I-827B, 1-770 AND 'EL SAL FORM)

1. A request for disposition is provided to every alien who is

apprehended. .

2. The formes) provides the alien with a choice between a hearing before an Immigration Judge, and a waiver of the right to a hearing in lieu of voluntary departure.

3. The I-827 A is provided to aliens of Canadian or Mexican descent.

4. The I-827B is provided to all other aliens, except El Salvadorlans and juveniles. The 1-827B includes an asylum option for the alien.

)

\ 1

I ,

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALIEN PR()CESSING

5

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

" I

J

5. The 1-770 is provided to juveniles, and includes special juvenile rights.

6. The El Salvadorian form is provided to EI Salvadorians, as they are under special removal sanctions, due to, their present country conditions.

c. RECORD OF DEPORTABLEIINADMISSmLE ALIEN (1-213)

1. Form 1-213 is the standard booking sheet for ICE enforcement. It records standard biographical data about an individual, and the specific information required to establish alienage and removability, including citizenship, immigrant or nonimmigrant alien status, the violation of immigration status, any criminal violations, and work history.

2. The 1-213 will be used as supporting evidence for subsequent administrative action (240 removal proceeding).

)

)

,3. Additionally, there is a narrative portion of the 1-213 that allows the officer to articulate evidentiary information concerning .the alien and/or investigative target (employer, fraudulent document vendor, smuggler etc).

4. The contents of the 1-213 will be discussed in detail in Section vn of this lecture.

D. SWORN STATEMENT (I-21SC 'and I~263C)

1. If there is no A-file or any computerized record of the apprehended alien in ICE databases (CIS, NIlS, STSC, etc.) a sworn statement must be taken from the Subject.

2. The primary purpose of the sworn statement in administrative processing is to determine alienage and removability via inadmissible/deportation charges.

3. The 1-213 will be used as supporting evidence for subsequent administrative action (240 removal proceeding).

ICE ACADEMY 811212004

ALIEN PROCESSING

6

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

4. There are two types of sworn statements used in administrative processing:

a. Narrative, Form I:-.215C

b. Question and Answer (Q&A). Form 1-263C

5. Sworn Statements will be covered in more detail in Section VIII of this lecture.

E. JURAT (I-l63A)

1. The Jurat is used whenever an administrative sworn statement is taken (I':'215C or 1-263C).

2. The Jurat provides testiIriorly thai the Statement is true and correct and to the best of the alien's knowledge. It also provides notification of the length of the statement and where errors were initialed on the statement.

. ,

3. The Jurat is the last page of the state,QleI)t. T,he~en, the officer taking the statement and a second "witnessing" officer Will sign the

form; . '

F. INFORMATION FOR PASSPORT OR TRAVEL DOCUMENT (1-217)

1. The 1-217 is required for every A-file created unless the apprehended alien is already in possession of ~ ;yalidp~~port or travel document. However, only Ambassadors and Consuls may verify the vs.udity of passports ,and travel documents.

2. The 1-217 is used to ~pply t6 the alien' s embassy or consular office for a new document.

< '.. ~'

, lCEAC~EMY 8/1212004

. AUEN·PaocESSING

7

----------------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

J

G. MEMORANDUM FOR FILE - PROSECUTION WORKSHEET (G-l97)

1. The 0-197 must be completed by the A USA for any alien arrested who may be charged criminally as well as administratively (i.e, 8 USC 1325 - Entry without Inspection, 8 USC 1326 Re-Entry After Removal, etc.)

2. The 0-197 is used to make notations concerning any criminal prosecution action related to the case, such as when criminal prosecution is declined by the AUSA.

H. APPLICATION FOR NOTICE TO APPEAR AND BOND/CUSTODY PROCESSING, SHEET (1-265)

1. Once the 1-213 has been completed and the detained alien is either denied voluntary departure 9T elects to proceed to a removal hearing. an 1-265 is prepared for a Notice to Appear. The 1-213. Sworn Statement, conviction records, and other documentary evidence are listed as supporting evidence,

2. The 1-265 is used as a guide by the issuing officer to make.bond and custody decisions. It is also reviewed by t1te Supervisory 'Detention and Deportation Officer and by ICE Counsel to determine the legal

sufficiency of case~ , _'

'3. The contents of the 1-265 will be discussed in.detail in Section vn of this lecture.

L FINGERPRINTS

. 1. It is mandatory that every alien 14 years of age or older that is apprehended by ICE have ;2 sets of fingerprints taken on an FBI Criminal Card (FD-249).

2. One set will be sent to the FBI for classificationfmclusion ofICE apprehension record in NCIC. The second set will remain in the file.

ICE ACADEMY ·811212004

:ALIEN PROCESSING

8

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

)

3. It is extremely important to take classifiable fingerprintson jhe Fp- 249, and on any other document that requires a fingerprint. 'Only records containing classifiable prints will be included in NCIC database.

4. Failure to take classifiable firtgerptintsIl,lAy result in the subject evading future apprehension for administrative and/or criminal offenses. It may also result in the inability to prosecute, when fingerprints are key articles of evidence in a case (i.e, Re-Entry after

Removal prosecution). '

J. PHOTOGRAPH

1. It is mandatory that all aliens wbo lll'eapprehended bylCE have '

photographs taken." '

2. Photographs are taken with a camera that uses " Instant Developing" film (i.e. Polaroid). 'The camera should have a dual or quadruple lens (takes 2-4 pictures per p~). Computer generared photographs are not sufficient for consul presentation.

l

I

3. At least one set of four photographs should remain in the file. It will be attached to the bottom left side of the file folder.

v. . ALIEN PRocEssiNG DOCUMENTS - ACTiON FORMS

The following fonns provide the alien with notification J>{ any action

. that ICE will be taking in his case, and forms issued as a direcf result of

the action. .

A. NOTICE OF' ACTION - VOLUNTARY DEPARTURE (1 .. 210)'

1. The 1-210 provides noti:£icationt~ an alien that he has been granted or denied voluntary departure fY fD).

ICE'ACAD~MY 8/l2!2004

, c',., ALIEN' PROCESsING ·,

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

j

2. If Voluntary Departure is granted, The 1-210 informs the alien of the conditions of the departure:

a. Date of required departure.

b. Notification that failure to depart as specified may result in action being taken to effect removal and possible civil fines.

c. Warning of the importance of verification of departure if there is an outstanding-bond,

3. This form is provided if voluntary departure is granted by an official in lieu of a removal proceeding.

4. It may also-be provided at the ~onclusion of a removal hearing if~e Immigration Judge has granted the alien voluntary departure,

B. NOTICE TO APPEAR (NTA) (I-86~)

I

1. The NT A is the charging documents for any administrative offense, when it is decided or required that a Section 240 removal proceeding be conducted.

2. The NT A informs the alien of the administrative violations he allegedly committed, as well as infonnation about the 240 removal hearing. such as the date, time and place. of hearing and the

consequences of failing to appear. .

3. The NTA may be issued with or without a Warrant of Arrest (I-20.0) ..

4. If no W A is issued, the NT A will be the only document issued subsequent to processing the alien for removal proceedings, . The . '.' alien is allowed to remain at large on personal recognizance .~e

the removal proceedings are pending. .

7 autbQ~g officials DOted in 8 CFR 240.25(a).

+Z is$:aing officials 'noted in S'CFR 239.1(a),·

The NTA, \VA and Notice of cUstOdy Determmation were redesigDed based on statutory {IRAIIRA o~ l~~'&:reP.Jatory requirements beginning ApriJ 1,

1997. ; .

ICE ACADEMY 811212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 10

P ARTICIP ANT W:0RKBOOK

5. The distribution of NT A is as follows:

a. Original: Filed with EOIR (must have the original signature or the issuing authority).

b. First copy: Served on the, Alien/Respondent, May be served on the alien's counsel ofiecord if served bycertifiedmall.

c. Second copy: Administrative file (A.file) copy.

d. Third copy: May be provided to the counsel of record as a . courtesy when the first copy is served on the alien or retained in theA-file.

6. The NTA shall be served upon the detained alien within 72 hours following arrest. taking into account such factors as infrastructure and.lcgistical considerations, the need to obtain conviction records and other inforination related to the alien or immigration charges, the need for legal review, and other law enforcement requirements. -lf emergency or extraordinary circumstances as discussed above are activated, service of the NT A shall be made as Soon as practicable.

7. The Notice to Appear shall be served upon the detained alien while ' the alien is in the custody of the SAC in whose jurisdiction the alien was first arrested, No detained#en 's¥! be transferred to 'another jurisdiction prior to 1:he service of the NTA, The arresting officer shall be-responsible for ensurmgth8i the NTA is served on the Executive Office of'Immigratioa Review (EOIR).

",

8. The preparation of the 1-862 will be discussed in detail in Section X , of this lecture.

C. NOTICE OF INTENT TO ISSUE A'FJNAL' ADMINISTRATIVE DEPORTATION ~tIDER (1..851)

1. The 1-851 is issued when an alien is encountered who has entered the U.S. without inspection AND has been convicted of an aggravated felony.

2. The 1-851 provides for a removal of this particular type of alien without a 240 removal proceeding.

3. This type of removal (called an administrative removal) is addressed in Section 238 of the Act.

Service of NTA (within 72 ,hours)

Same issuing omcials astbeNTA

§238 of the INA

ICE ACADEM¥ 8I12l.i004

'AuE~PRQCEssiNG 11

P ARTICIfANT WORKBOOK

j

D. NOTICE TO EOIR: ALIEN ADDRESS, (1-830)

1. Upon issuance of an NT A (1-862) to a Subject, the Office of the Immigration Judge (00) will be provided with a Form 1-830, advising current address location of alien (home address ICE detention facility, state or federal correctional facility, etc.). If Subject is in non-ICE custody, the 1-830 will note the anticipated release date.

2. Whenever an alien changes location (moves, released from custody. enters ICE custody, moves from one ICE facility to another), a new 1-830 will be completed and forwarded to the DU. The new 1-830 will note whether a change of venue is requested if subject moves out of area of initial venue.

3. EOIR is an acronym for the Executive Office of'Immigration Review, which oversees the OU.

E. CHANGE OF ADDRESS, (EOm-33)

,

)

1. This form is provided to the alien with the NT A (1-862); The form is to be used by the alien to provide notice to EOIRIOU of changes in address and telephOne number within 5 days of change, as per. the provisions of the NTA

/

F. WARRANT FOR ARREST OF ALIEN (W A) (1-200) (Administrative Warrant)

1. The 1-200 commands an ICE officer/agent who' has been delegated authority pursuant to Section 287 of the INA to take a specified alien into custody for proceedings in accordance with the provisions of the immigration laws and regulations.'

2. The W A is issued when a determination has been made that arrest is appropriate in the case of an alien placed in removal proceedings. The W A may be issued at the time removal proceedings are initiated or may be issued, upon a change of circumstances, subsequent to initiation of removal proceedings but prior to a:final order of removal.

3. Once a W A has been issued, an alien must be provided with Form 1- 286, Notice of Custody Determination.

C.F.R. § 3.19(g)

Alien mns.~ report address changes to EOIR within 5 days of a change.

20 issuing officers noted in ~ CFR 287.5(c)(2)

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

. ALIEN P~OCESSING 12

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

G. NOTICE OF CUSTODY DET~:RMINATION (1-286)

1. The 1-286 is a "Notice" provided for under Section. 236 of the INA. It provides a de~~ioil onthe custody status of the arrested alien, prior to the fitlaldetenmnationby the Itninigration Judge, at the conclusion of the removal hearing.

2. This decision may be to:

a. Detain an alien in the custody ofICE, or

b. Release an alien under a bond (nllnim:um $1,500), or

c. Release an alien on his/her own recognizance (requires

completion of Form r':'Z20A). .

3. Initial determination and notification of custody status and immigration charges where there is no emergency or other :

extraordinary ,circumstances: .

a. A custody determination and charging decision shall be made within 48 hours of an alien's arrest.

b. The initial custody detennination will be made and. documented on.a;Np#ce of Custody Determination (Form 1-286). bate and time and immigration charge(s) will-be annotated on the t-Zg6.

"Date and time of custody determination ' " and "Probable

charge(s) of removability "may be hand written on the

front of the form. .

c. The 1-286 shall be served on the alien within 48 hOUlS of arrest:

d. A copy of the served 1-286 Will be maintained in the aliens Afile.

4. Initial determin~tiQn and notification 'of custody status and immigration chargeS where there is an emergency 'or6ther

extraordinary circumstances: . .

a. An Initial, custody determination and charging decision will be madewitbin 48 houts of an alien's arrest imIess an emerger1cy requires additional time. In such cases, every effort shall be made to make the decision, and notify tlie alien, as soon as practicable.

h. The arresting officer shall draft a memorandum that explains, in detail, the emergency or e~0r:4in!:Jry circ:umstaI)J,~~. aqd,p}a.ce the memorandum in the A-file.' . . ,. ,. " . ",. i

.

S. Defmition of 'emergency or other extraordinary

)

8 CFR 287.3(d) .

)

8 CFR 28'i.3( d)

ICE ACADEMY 8!12i2004

ALIENPaOCESSJN(7

.. '13

P ARTICIP Al\"T WORKBOOK

I

circumstance. "

a. A significant infrastructure or logistical disruption including, but 8 CFR 287.3(d) not limited to, disruption caused by an act of terrorism, weather,

natural catastrophe, power outage, serious transportation

emergency or serious civil disturbance.

b. Whenever there is a compelling law enforcement need including, but not limited to, an immigration emergency resulting in the influx of large numbers of detained aliens that overwhelms agency resources and makes it unable to logistically meet the general servicing requirements.

c. Individual facts or circumstances unique to the alien including, but not limited to, the need for medical care or a particularized compelling law enforcement need.

d. The official making the determination as to whether there is a "compelling law enforcement need" shall be at the level of Special Agent in Charge (SAC) or Field Office Director (FOD) or an equivalent position,

e. Any such decision made by the SAC or FOD shall be reviewed by the office of the Principal Legal Advisor no later than 30 days after such a decision is made in order to determine if the need continues to exist.

\

)

6. The 1-286 contains the following sections:

a. Certificate of Service ..

b. Request by alien for re-determination of the custody decision

c. Results of re-determination of custody decision

d. Notice to the alien concerning right to rep~ including the time period to secure counsel (Back of form).

B. ORDER OF RELEASE ON RECOGNIZANCE, (I-220A)

1. The 1-22QA provides notification to the alien that he bas been ordered released on his own recognizance, and notes conditions with which he must comply, The serving officer and alien must sign the form upon service.

2. The 1-220A may be issued to an alien when:

a. A Warrant of Arrest (I-200) has been issued, and a subsequent determination has been made on the Notice of Custody Determination (1-286) that be or she may be released on

ICE ACADEMY . 8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 14

-----..,.-.----------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

recognizance pending removal proceedings (mandatory issuance), or

)

b. When there is no'detention anticipated, as.it is determined that the alien will be released on his own recognizance without the issuance of a Warrant of Arrest

I. ORDER TO DETAIN OR RELEASE ALIEN (1-203)

1. The 1-203 informs the officers of an ICE or non-ICE facility that , they are ordered to detain (or release) an alien pursuant to the ICE officer/agent's administrative action.

2. This form is to be completed anytime an agent transpo~;an alien

. for detention to a Service ·Processip.g Center (SPC)' or any other ICE or non-ICE facility.

3 .: The I-203 will be.presented to the person at the facility who will be taking the alien into custody .

. 4. The order contains biographical.data on the alien, as well as the nature of the proceedings instituted against the alien.

J. WARRANT OF REMOV ALIDEPORTATION (I-205)

1. A Warrant of Removal will be completed when a determination has been made to remove the.alien. ,

2. The front of the 1-2()~~pmyi4~.offi~W:ll-Gtice thatthe·alien hasbeen, -: ;F~rm 1 .. 205 is issued' found removable, citing the section o( law under whlch, the alien has by.~be Fi,dd Office

been ordered removed and the official who made the decision. Dii-ector '

3. At the time of the alien'sphysical removal, the offi~er effecting the removal must complete the reverse side of the 1-205.

4. The officer will note the name of the alien, place, date And .manner of removal. The officer will OQtain a, classifiable rolled print of the alien's right index finger in the space provided. The alien and the officer taking the print must sign in the spaces provided.

5. Once completed, the back of the I-205 will serve as evidence of the alien's identity and prior: removal if the. alien illegally re-enters the U.S. This evidence may be psedtQ.administratively reinstate the order of removal, or to-prosecute the alien. for 8 USC 132~ .(R.e-

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALiEN-P~OCEssiNG 15

----------------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

j

Entry After Removal).

K.FINAL ADMINISTRATIVE REMOVAL ORDER (l~851A)

1. Form 1-8S1A will be completed when a determination has been made to remove an alien pursuant to Section 238.

2. The 1-8S1A provides official notice that the alien has been found removable, citing the section of law under which the alien has been ordered removed and the official who made the decision, with a certificate of Service.

L WARNING TO ALIEN ORDERED REMOVED OR DEPORTED (1-294)

1. The 1-294 is provided to the alien when a Warrant of Removal (1- 205) is issued.

2.

\

I

/

.I

3. The 1-294 notifies aliens beingre.moved from the United States that they are prohibited from entering or attempting to enter the U.S. for specified periods of time ranging from five years to permanently barred, unless they first obtain permission to re-apply for admission from the A.G.

The officer preparing Form 1-294 must check the series of boxes that apply in the alien's particular case.

4. The alien 'Will retain a copy of the form. A second copy will be placed in the alien's A-File.

M. ORDER OF SUPERVISION (I-220B)

1. An alien who may not be removed must nonetheless be detained during proceedings and during the removal period. If after the expiration of the removal period (90 days), it is determined that the alien may not be removed. the alien may be released on an order of supervision. Form 1-220B.

2. If the alien is eligible for release, he must demonstrate that he is not a threat to property or persons (8 CFR 241.4) and is likely to comply with the order of removal.

3. ICE may impose conditions of release that shall be explained to the alien. The alien must acknowledge these conditions.

Aggravated felons are ineligible for release on I-nOB.

Conditions of release may include medical or psychological examination, report to

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

·ALIEN PROCESSING 16

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

)

4. If the alien fails to comply with the terms of the release.he is subject to fine, detention and/or crithinar prosecution (243(a) of the INA).

ICE for ID purposes, and posting of bond.

VI. ALIEN PROCESSING - SUPPLEMENTAL FORMS

A. CONTINUATION PAGE (1-831)

I. This is a generic continuation Page, which was created to ensure uniformity in ICE processing, It will be USed to continue allegations and charges on the NTA (I-862), as well as information on the 1-213, 1-210, 1-220A. or any other I~Epro~ssing fqn,n f~rwI,iich

additional data recording spacels necessary. ' .

2. In-the top right hand comer of the form, note the numberof'the form:" '(

to be continued. . " '

3. Record the alien's full name as it appears on the form being

con~u~. '

4. Note the Aefile number, and the date the continuation page is being

prepared. '

"

)

5. The officer must complete the bottom of the continuation page with his or her signature, title. and 'the number of continuation pages.

B. NOTICE OF ENTRY OF APPEARANCE OF ATTORNEY OR

, REPRESENTATIVE (G:-28) ,,' , '

1. Form. 0-28 is used to provide notification to ICE that the alien has secured counsel for the pending ICE issue. It is completed by the alien's attorney/representative; of record.

2. It is placed on the left side of the file.

C. BAGGAGE ANP PERSONAL PrtOPERTY EFFEctS OF DETAINED ALIEN (1-43)

1. ¥qrnl 1-43 provides nctification.to ICE officials tllat an a.ppr~ll~nde4 alien claims that he has assets in the United States that is not in his.. immedia~ possession. (i.e. automobile, bank. account, etc.)

2., Form 1-43 contains a statement by the alien concerning the, assets,

ICEACAD~MY 8/12n004

'. ALIEN PRoci$srNG ' 17,

______ "~~.L .,

P ARTICIP ANT WORKBOOK

I

and provides the name of a person in the U.S. who will care for the property in the alien's absence.

VII. PREP ARA nON OF FORM 1-213, RECORD OF DEPORT ABLEIINADMISSIBLE ALIEN

A. The numbered information that follows corresponds to the sample

Form I-213 at the end of this section. .

B. There are several different versions of Form 1-213 used in the Field Offices. However, they contain the same basic format, and method of completion.

C. In any of the data spaces, if the block is not applicable, write 'NAt.

If more explanation is required, type "See Narrative".

-,

)

(1) Family Name - Enter the complete true name of the alien in capital letters. If an alias is used by the alien type "ALIA$" or. "AKA tt after the true name and enter the alias. If several aliases have been used, enter the primary alias used in ICE records. Remaining aliases should be noted in the narrative. In the far right end of block #1, insert the Soundex code.

(2) Sex - Enter "M" for male or "Fit for female.

(3) Hair - Enter the color of the alien's hair or "Bald" if alien has no hair.

(4) Eyes - Enter the color of the alien's eyes.

(5) Complexion - Enter the applicable term as noted below ONLY:

a. Light;

b. Medium;

c. Dark;

d. Very dark.

(6) Country of Citizenship - Enter the country of which the alien is a citizen, subject or national. If alien has dual citizenship. type "Dual (country)/(country)" and include further information in the

narrative. .

These are tbe only options yon can use.

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSING' "18

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

(8) (9) (10) (11)

(7)

Passport Number andCountry of'Issue« If a 'document was used to enter the United States, or if the Subject has a travel document, enter the serial number of the passport, travel document, or similar certificate-of" identity, the country that issued the document, and expiration date.

File Number - Enter the ICE" A" file number;

Height - Enter the height in feet and inches ..

, .

Weight - Enter the weight in po~ds. 1 .. ~t?~.'7" 2'.2·pounds.

. ", ", ." .

Occupation - EI;lt,erthe occupation PIaCti~'tn'C()~~~f-:' . foreign residence. Enter ''La~ore~·1 iftbe:~lieft~\~;Qrit:~bzy"" involved short-term jobs of different tYPes;·,>:~.~·~,?;:"~:;~~2:·:~··;: "

., .'. '.,. '" ••. ,,'<':<".

. .: ... !' ~ ';.:": .;.1;:,: .'

U.S. Address - ErtteI'residence address. if:illen;~isid~s :or will' reside with a friend Or relative, indicate ·"C/O", name; relationship and address.

(13) Scars and/or Marks - Enter any visible distinguishing physical characteristics Such as birthmarks; scars, tattoos, amputations or baldness. This is important for future. identification of subject.

(12)

(14)

Date, Place, Time, Manner ~f Last ~ntry - Indicate date, place, time and manner of most rec:eIit'ENTRY into U.S. If status has changed since entry, note change in "Immigration Record." andlor "Narrative".

Examples;

a. 05/06/94,2 MI. W. POE ELP, 0900, EWI h. 08112195, SYS, 1900, False Claim to USC

. c. 03112/96, NYC, D·l SS COS:MIC, Deserted BAL 03/20/96

d. 04112196, MIA, 1300, Visitor (B-2)

e. 04/12198, LOS, IR-l Immigrant (LPR)

(15) Passenger Boarded At - Foreign location where Subject boarded plane or vessel to the U.S. IfEWI put NI A.

)

)

I€EACADEMY 811212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 19

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

!

(16) F.B.I. Number - Enter criminal history number supplied by

Federal Bureau of Investigation, when obtained from record

checks ran on an individual and confirmed,

(17) Marital Status - Check appropriate box.

(18) Number, Street, City ••• of Permanent Address - Enter the.

address in Subject's country of residence, citizenship and/or

nationality ..

Examples:

a. Calle Cinco de Mayo 38, Colonia Morales, Reynosa,

Tampa.Mex.

b. Ejido Guzman, Ojo de Agua, Son., Mex~

c. Avenida B #34, Jaltepec, Hgo .• Mex.

(19) Method of Location! Apprehension - Investigation Case

Management System (ICMS) Impact level subcategory number

that corresponds to the alien being processed.

Examples:

a. 518.11213 Aliens illegally in the U.S.

b. 511.2.1/2/3/4 Criminal aliens

(20) Date of Birth - Month, day, and year in .MMIDDIYY fonnat.

(21) Date of Action - Date of apprehension, location or interview.

;.

(22) Location Code - Your duty station code (three-letter code).

AMlO15

Example: Atlanta = ATL.

(23) AtlNear - Cross out non-applicable word and show city and

state oflocation/apprehension.

(24) Date and Hour - Month, day. year and time

located/apprehended.

(25) City, Province (State) and Country of Birth -Town or city,

j state or province, .and country of birth. ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

. ALIEN PROCESSING 20

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

(26) AR - Alien Registration - Any alien that was lawfully admitted into the U.S. (i.e. LPR,Visitor. etc.) is considered registered.

If the alien/file DOES NOT have proof of registration (i.e. 1 .. 94. Immigrant Visa), check the block shown. If the alien DOES have proof of registration, complete block #26'.

(27) Form ~ Type and number. Complete only if alien-has proof of registration. If taken from alien, check appropriate square for "lifted."

(28) By:" Name and title ofICE officer(s).

(29) NIV Issuing Post and NiV Number .. List place where alien obtained hislher non-immigrant visa to come to the lJ..S .with. . visa number. If. visa is waived for that country, so.indicate. .

(30) Social Security Account Name - Insert name exactly 3$ on social security card (if alien uses a fraudulent or counterfeit, write "fraudulent" and explain in narrative),

(31) Status at Entry - Immigration status upon ENTRY jnto U.S. If Subject changed status after entry, note change in "Immigration Record" and/or "Narrative",

Examples:

a. EWI (Entry Without Inspection)

b. Visitor

c. Student

d. Immigrant

(32) statlis When Found - Use one of the following choices ONLY:

a. b. c. d. e.

f.

Employed

. Seeking Employment Seeking Assistance In TravellTransit Welfare

In Institution

)

)

These are the only options :j!q~: ¢l:in use.

ICE,AGADEMY 8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSlNG .... , 21

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

I

(33) Date Visa Issued - Self-explanatory.

(34) Social Security Number - Self-explanatory (include fraudulent or counterfeit number.).

(35) Length of Time Illegally in U.S. '- Use one of the following choices ONLY:

a. At Entry

b.. Within 72 hours

c. 4-30 days

d. 1 month - 1 year

e. Over one year

(36) Immigration Record - Show all prior ICE actions. Continue in ·'N arrative" if necessary.

)

(37) Criminal Record - Show criminals records or note nFBI report attached. II May refer to "Narrative" for continuation.

.I

(38) Name, Address and Nationality of Spouse - Self-explanatory .

Include Maiden name in parentheses with word ''NEE'', if not part of current-last name used. If spouse resides with subject, write same u.S. address (SUSA) or if foreign write same foreign address (SF A).

(39) NumberINationality of Minor Children - Provide number of Minor children with breakdown, by number, of'nationality; ifit 'differs by child.

Example:

If Subject has 2 minor children; one born in France, 2 born in U.S. note:

I-France 2-US

These are ,the only epnons you can use.

ICE ACADEMY '8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 22

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

(40)

(41)

(42)

Father's Name, Nationality and Address - Self-explanatory. If father resides with subject, write same U.S. address (SUSA) or if foreign write same foreign address (SF A). If father is deceased, write "deceased" instead of address. Make sure to hate nationality, even if deceased.

Mother's Name, Nationality and Address - Self-explanatory, Ifmother resides with subject, write same U.S. address (SUS.t\) or if foreign write same foreign address (SFA). If mother is deceased, write "deceased" instead of address. Make sure to

. '

note nationality, even if deceased.

','

Monies DuelProperty in U.S. Not in Immediate P~ssessimi,~ Note whether alien claims property/assets in U.S. If alienclaims none, he/she will initial this block. If alien claims property, complete Form 1-43. (See Section VI- C for 1-43 deseription.)

(43) Fingerprinted - Check Yes, ifICE officer/agent fingerprints ' Subject during processing. ICE off'icersiagents must imgerprint (and photograph) every alien that is apprehended. (See Section N - G for Fingerprint description.)

(44)

) \

I

(45) Charge Code,Word(s) - A list is provided for codes that relate

:1: to the deportation charge(s) to be used for Subject. These , numbers are not sections of the law, they ate simply codes, (See

APPENDIX.) , ' ,,'

Examples:

a. I6A -Inadmissible as present in the U.S. without being

admitted (EWI). "

b. RIB - Deportable as present in the U.S. in violation of law. (Overstays)

c. Rl Cl - Deportable as non-immigrant status violator. (Unlawfully employed, etc.)

(46) Name and Address of (Last)/(Current) U.S. Employer - Strike out non-applicable word iIi title. Provide name and address of most recent/present employer in U.S.

ICE ACADEMY 8/121i004

AuENPROCESSING 23

(47)

I

Type ef Employment eh

appropriate: I

)

(49)

(SO)

!

"HI" - Heavy Industry i

"Ll" - Light Industry :

"A" - Agriculture i. "C" - Construction II "S" - Service I

(48)

I Salary - Show hourly, or d.

I

place of employment. I

. I

I Employed Fromfl'o - Date.

began and terminated, sep~ still employed by company J1 place of employment note 'j

I I

Narrative '- ~.~-~--- ...

The following relates to the preparation of the narrative portion of the 1- 213. Place the underlined title as noted before the related narration:

(a)

Method of Location! Apprehension: Articulate the predication for the apprehension: Fugitive Operations, referral by other branch, etc. If it is related to an operational case, place the case number in this section.

(b) Alienage and deportability/inadmissibility: . Alienage and deportability or inadmissibility must be established in the narrative. The basic rule is to include the same information necessary to complete the "allegation" of the 1-265 (Application For Notice to Appear and Processing Sheet). The facts may be in sentence form or listed as on the 1-265.

Example:

• SUBJECT is a native and citizen of Mexico who makes no claim to V.S. citizenship or LAPR status. He last entered the Ll.S; in violation of Section 212 of the Act, by wading the river 1 mile' west of the Brownsville Port. of Entry and was not inspected and admitted by an immigration officer.

Each office may have different methods for the execution of the narrative portion. However, the same general guidelines will apply.

ICE ACADEMY 811212004

. ALIEN PROCESSING 24

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

..J.S. citizenship, alienage and ~tished prior to processing, An 1-213 .Jr INADMIsSmLE OR DEPORTABLE .if the narrative what claim was made, how ,;ovability was determined, and any documents .'t the claim .

..J. History: List a detailed account of subject's criminal jy and disposition. Include State Identification numbers not .. ..ted in "FBI Number" or "Criminal History".

,.' • I •

/

Health and Humanitarian Aspects: Full details should be recorded as to health and humanitarian aspects of the case, such as close family tiesin U~S., any bealthproblens (i.e, positive tuberculosis test reaction), ifsubject is on public assis~c~,~r welfare, etc.

: ~ .

. :., .

, .. ' .

(e)

Intelligence Information: Provide a detailed account of any additional information that is of intelligence value, such as information concerning subject's smuggler ifhe used oneto euter the U.S., false documents or other related. items. If Sllbject has fraudulent social security card, note vendor information, The ICE officer/agent may also note intelligence information providedby subject that relates to other aliens in the U.S.

)

Information concerning false documents should be as detailed as possible. In the ~ of documents, a description offue document, distinguishing security features (i,e., does not fluoresce, print is green, .plastic.is. oUy, etc.), ... .

" .

Smuggling information should include as much information ~ possible about the:

a. Arranger, smuggler and/or transporter, ifnot the same

person (name, description, address, etc.)

b. Cost of operation

c. Point of encounter of the initiator

d. Vehicles.used (type, color, license number, etc.)

e. Pick-up point

f. Destination (including intermediate stops)

g. Location/address ofttdrop l;l.o,uses:~ (inclqd,mg color, street address, number of'people.in the house, etc.)

h. Any other information that can be obtained.

ICE ACADEMY . 8/1212004

ALXE;N PROCESSING 25

PARTIClP ANT WORKBOOK

}

(f)

funds: Amount offunds, both U.S. and foreign, in the alien's possession should be listed.

(g) Recommendations: After obtaining all pertinent data relating to the case, the processing officer will record his/her recommendation for the disposition of the SUBJECT following outstanding ICE policy and guidelines.

There are four types of dispositions that can generally be recommended;

a. Prosecution

b. Removal proceedings

c. Voluntary departure, and

d. VIR (Voluntary departure with safeguards) (1-210)

When it appears that the -SUBJECT may be eligible for discretionary relief or the matter is of an unusual or complex nature, the infonnation should be immediately brought to the .attention of the official who would authorize the Notice to Appear.

/

Alien has been advised of communication privileges (In narrative box):

8 CFR 236.1 (e) states that if Subject is to be served with a Warrant of Arrest, I-200, he must be notified of the privilege of communication with the consular officer of his country of citizenship. nationality or residence, located in the United States . . Once advised. of this privilege, the officer will initial and date the space provided.

This CFR section also states that immediate communication with diplomatic or consular officers, by the ICE officer, is required for aliens who are citizens or nationals of certain countries, as listed in the regulation. This notification must be effected regardless of the allen's wishes. The officer will not notify the consular or diplomatic officer of any application by the alien for asylum or withholding of removal.

(51) Signature and Tltle » Insert full name.fitle, and signatureof officer preparing 1-213.

ICE ACADEMY . 8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 26

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

(52) Distribution - Show distribution ofI-213 copies.

Example:

1 - "A" file

1 - Office Statistics

1 -lntelligence Officer (Field Office) 1 - Regional Intelligence Office

1 - SSA (if fraudulent Social Security card is noted)

(53) Received - Strike out inappropriate words. Insert name of officer referring case to the receiving officer. This is usually the officer .. who completed, the 1-213. Note date, location. and time . .'

(54) DispositioJi- Showpreliininary:disposition (NTA, 1-210 VD. etc. When a NTA and Warrant of Arrest is applied for, note "NTAfW A". Include bond amount

(55) EXamining Officer - Signature of officer receiving Subject and documents and authorizing disposition, usually the Supervisory Detention and Deportation Officer.

VID. PREPARATION OF THE SWORN STATEMENT

A. Oath/Affirmation

1. The alien will be placed under oatp. prlbrto·takingllie'smtement

2. To administ~ the oath, the officer and the alien Will raise their right

hand. .

3. The officer will ask the alien "Do you solemnly swear (affirm) that the statements you are about to make will' be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth?"

4. Once the alien indicates that he will tell the ~th, the affirmation is complete, and a statement may be taken..

) ,

J

ICE ACADEMY 8/il12004 .

ALIEN P~OCESSING .,27

-:

)

I

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

B. Completion of Affidavit in an Administrative Proceeding, 1- 2ISC (Narrative Statement)

1. A narrative style statement may be used if there are no complex issues to be addressed.

2. The narrative statement of removability is completed on Form 1- 215C~ Affidavit in an Administrative Proceeding.

3. The top of the form is completed as follows:

a In Re - Name of alien; last name first (in capital letters ), comma '(,):first name and middle name (in upper and lower case letters).

b. File No. - Alien's A-File number.

c. Executed at - complete address of location where statement was taken. (i.e. address ofField Office)

d. Date - Date 'statement was taken.

e. In the _language - Indicate the language used to obtain the statement in the space provided. (I.e. English. Spanish, etc.)

, f Interpreter used - If an in~rpreter was used to

obtainstatement, indicate name of interpreter in space 'provided, If no interpreter was used place the word "not" in space.

g. I . aelmowJedge ••• ~ Name of alien, first name, middle

name and last name order.

h. Be desires to take my sworn statement regarding - Reason for taking statement. For removal purposes only, indicate "my identity, alienage and status in the U.S. Indicate any other immigration-related topics that will be addressed in the statement

4. The narrative statement will be placed under the administrative rights and affirmation. The steps for completing a narrative statement are outlined below. A sample of a narrative template is provided in the appendix.

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 28

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

C. Narrative Statement

1. The narrative statement will be written in a narrative format, in a

manner that reads as if the alien is "telling.a story". .

2. It should be written as simplistically as possible, not using complex words or phrases.

3. Establish Identity

a. Use the alien's full and complete name, including middle name(s), 'and two last names, if applicable.

b. If the alien has ever used an alias, nickname or maiden ~~, indicate names used. If no cthername-has ever been.used note, so. ("1 have never used any other name,")

4. Establish Alienage

a. Note date and place (town, city. state, country) of birth of alien.

b. Indicate alien's country of citizenship and nationality. Even if the country is the same, include a separate line for citizenship and nationality.

c. Indicate the place of birth and country of citizenship of s'!lbject's parents. If the parents 'are citizens of the . same country as the' alien, the alien's citizenship declaration may contiaue, "as are '. my parents".

5. Establish Removability

a. Identify date, place and manner of the most recent (last) entry into the U.S. Be as specific as possible with the entry information,

h. If the alien admits to entering illegally (i.e. EWI),. make a thorough account of the illegal entry, including smuggler information, documents used, method of entry (afoot, truck etc.).

c. Note whether or not CBP Officials admitted the alien when he entered.

d. Include the number of prior entries into the U.S. If there were

)

)

Include tbe word "illegal" to describe the entry If the alien uses the word.

ALlEN PROCESSING 29

ICE ACADEMY . 8/12/2004

j

)

I

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

no prior entries, indicate that this was the subject's only entry into the U.S.

6. Other Information

a, If the alien is being processed as part of another investigative case (Frauds, smuggling, worksite enforcement. etc.), include any information the alien provides concerning the investigation.

For example if the alien is being processed as part of a Worksite operation, the statement will include:

1) Name of company alien works for

2) Date began employment

3) Type of work performed at company

4) Wages earned

5) How paid"(Cash, check, etc.)

6) Person who hired alien

7) Documents requested by employer

8) Documents provided by alien. to employer

9) Completion' ofI-9 fOIDl

10) Employers knowledge of alien's illegal status

b. Ask for and include any statement the alien wishes to make.

D. Completion of Record of Sworn Statement, I-163B (Question and Answer IQ&AI format)

I. If a statement is being taken which involves complex issues it is recommended that a Q&A be used instead of a narrative format.

2. The Q&A statement concerning administrative matters is completed on Form 1-263B, Record of Sworn Statement.

3. The top of the form is completed as follows:

IC1i:ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALIEN PROC1):SSING 36

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

a. Office - complete address of ICE office of jurisdiction. (i.e, address of the Field Office)

b. File No. - Alien's A-File number.

c. Statement by - Name of alien, in first name, middle name and

last name order. .

d. In the case of - Name of alien, last name first (in capital letters), comma (.) first name and middle name (in upper and lower case

letters). '

e. At - complete address of location where statement was taken. (can also be address of the Field Office)

f. Date - Date statement was taken. ,

g. Before - Name and Title of the officer taking the statement from

the alien. .

h. In the _language - Indicate ~elanguage used to obtain the statement in the space provided. (I.e. English, Spanish, etc.)

i. Interpreter used - If an interpreter was used to

obtain statement, indicate name of interpreter in space provided. If no interpreter was used place the word "not" in space.

j. I am an officer ••• I desire to take your swom statement regarding - Reason for taking s~nt. ForremovaI purposes only, indicate "my identity, aliena:geandstatus in. the U.S. Indicate any other immigration~related topics that will be addressed in the statement, For example, if the alien is apprehended pursuant to a Worksite Enforcement investigation, include "and my employment at.. .",

5. The Q&A statement will be placed under the Q&A rights and affnmation. The sreps:;fot:ootnpleting aitarntti\re sta.tement' ate' outlined below: A sample of·a Q&A template is providedin the appendix.

E. Q&A Statement

1. The Q&A statement will contain the same information as the , narrative. The infonnation will be arranged in the same order as the narrative:

a. Identity

b. Alienage

c. Removability

d. Other

, .

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALIEN PRO,CESSING 31

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

/

2. The difference between the narrative and the Q&A is that each question asked of the alien will appear on the statement after the designation "Q" (Question).

3. The alien's response will be placed underneath the question after the designation "An (Answer).

4. The ICE officer/agent will ask the question, exactly as written.

5. It is imperative that the alien's response is recorded word for word.

Paraphrasing is unacceptable.

F. Signatures and Initials on Statements

1.

2.

3.

!

J

4. Regardless of the type of statement taken, it is essential for the officer to read the entire statement to the alien after it is completed.

The alien will initial the bcttom of every page of the stateinent.

The alien must sign the last page of the statement, immediately underneath the last line of print, if there are no objections to the contents.

If there are discrepancies noted by the alien, cross out the erroneous information and insert correction., Have alien initial every error,

5. It is an acceptable practice for officers to deliberately place errors in the statement text, so that the initialed corrections provide evidence that the alien read (or had read to him)' and understood. the contents of the statement.

IX. PREPARATION OF THE NTAo BOND AND CUSTODY PROCESSING SHEET; 0-265)

The numbered information that follows corresponds to the sample Form. 1-265 at the end of this section.

A. Alien's Name- Alien's full and complete name, Last name(s) first (in Capital letters). comma C,) First name and middle name(s) (in upper and lower case). Include all aliases,maiden name, and ' nicknames used if applicable.

Date of Birth - Alien's date of birth spelled out completely. (i.e,

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

. ALIEN PROCESSING 32

----------------- PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

September 14,1936)

File No. - Alien's A-File number.

Date of Processing - Date of completion of form.

Address - Current U.S. address of alien. If incarcerated, place complete name and address offacility.

Factual Allegations - Check box to note removal type. 212 (a) inadmissible (EWI~ etc.),.or237(a) deportable (statuS violator, criminal, etc.)

List allegations that-provide probable cause fbfremoval proceedings. there are templetes to be used for each type of ' removal charge. These templates are provided in the appendix.

Check box for Attomey of Record ifthere is a 0-28 on.file,

Supporting Evidence - List any evidence that will be used to support the factual allegations. St'1pJlortlng evidence will include the 1-213, the sworn statement, arid doctnnentary evidence, 'such as entiy documents used by the alien, etc. .

B. Additional Factors to be C~DSidered for Bond/Custody Determination.

1. Is a petition or applieation pending fortJds .alien or a family

, member? - y~ ~rNo~lfyes; explain type of' " ' .

applicati6n1petitioIi; perSon it applieS to,and h6W information· . was located .

. ,

2. Total times appreltended - Place total number of times apprehended by ICE riext to title. Do not include .present apprehension. If there is a past apprehension, complete spaces as indicated, if known,

3. Present health of subject, spouse and chDdren - If there is no indication of illness by subject or in, records, note "Appears good". If there is ~ history of illness, explain the illneSs type, duration and severity. If'8ubjectis ~scribing~ssbot~ .

"Subject claims ... ". ' ! , , •

)

.'1.{ .

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004 .

ALlEN PaOeESSING

.: ,,' 33

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

4. Total time in U.S., dates and loeationlresidingwith - Total amount of time in U.S. prior to apprehension. If alienhad multiple entries, note dates of entry and departure and location of alien during these time periods. Names of family members residing with subject at present, if applicable.

5. Personal property in U.S. - AIl· assets claimed by alien in U.S. (i.e, automobile, house, bank account, etc.), as noted on 1-43. If no property is' claimed, note "Claims none".

6. Family members in U.SJaddress - All immediate family located in the U.S., with their address if different than subject's.

If family resides at same address as subject, note "SUSA" (same U.S" address).

7. Employment History - Subject's past employment history; including name of employer, address and dates of employment

8. Other Factors - Note. any other factors to be considered in _

determining bondlcustody~ such as- flight risk history, aggravated

felony conviction, criminal, etc. . .

C. The Undersigned Recommends - Check recommendation:

Voluntary Departure (V ID without NTA) or Notice to Appear (NTA). Note Removal Charge to be used on NTA. Signature and title of officer preparing form,

. .

D. Approved as to Legal Sufficiency - ICE Counsel's approval

signature, title, place and date approved. .

. . .

E. Bond Determination -'- Completed by appropriate ICE official, if

applicable.

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 34

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

X. PREPARATION OF NoncE,To APPEAR a-862l

A. Page one ofNTA

1. File No - Alien A-File Number.

2. Respondent - complete name of subject, including aliases maiden and nicknames, fOI'IIIB-t as noted on 1-265.

3. Currently residing at - complete address of subject, as noted on 1- 265. Include area code and telephone number" if applicable. . .

4. You ••• - Select the applicable statement, and indicate selection by placing an "x" in the appropriate box;

a.' You are an arriving alien .-applies to inadmissible (212) aliens apprehended at a port of entry,

b. Yen are an aHen present iiI the United States who has not been admitted or pareled .... applies to- inadmissible (212) aliens

encountered in the interior oftbe U.S. (EWI's) . .

c. You have been admitted to the United States, but are deportable for the reasons. stated below - applies to . deportable. (237) aliens.

5. ICE aUeges that you - Allegations that provide probable cause for removal proceedings. Use the same language noted in the 1-265 uD.der "Factual Allegations".

6. On the basis of the foregoing •••. pursuant to the following provisiOns of law -

7. This notice is being issued •••• credible fear of persecution - Iudicate with an "x" if an asylum officer determined that the subject has a credible fear of persecution.

8. Section 235(b){1) ••• - Indicate with an "x" if expedited removal by an ICE officer was vacated in lieu of a removal hearing. Also indicate the reason the expedited removal was vacated.

9. You are order to appear before an Immigration Judge of the U.S. Dept. of JUstice at - Complete address of immigration court where removal proceeding will be held, date and time of proceeding.

\

ICE ACADEMY 8/1112004

ALIEN PaOCESSING 35

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

J 10. Signature and Title of Issuing Officer - signature and title of

person authorized to issue NT A.

11. Date -- Date of Issuance of NT A

12. City and State - City and State where NT A was issued.

13. If additional space is needed for information on NT A, use Form 1- 831, Continuation Sheet.

B. Page two (reverse) ofNTA

14. Notice to Respondent -- informs alien that:

a. The NT A is evidence of alien registration and must be carried at all times;

b. He may be represented in the proceeding at no expense to the Government, and that unless specifically requested by alien, hearing will be scheduled no earlier than 10 days from issuance ofNTA. '

c. He may admit or deny allegations, and present evidence on his own behalf, provide hislher own witnesses and cross examine government witnesses;

d. The Immigration Judge will advise on any relief for removal that the alien may be eligible for, and provide an opportunity for the alien to apply for the relief.

e. He is required to provide ICE and EOm. with mailing address and phone number, and any changes must be brought to attention of both agencies immediately using form EIOR~33.

f. The consequences for failing to provide accurate and/or change

of address. ,

g. Ifhe fails to attend the hearing, a removal order may be made in his absence.

IS. Reqnest for Prompt Bearing - If alien wishes to waive 1 O~y period prior to hearing, he will sign and date this section. A witnessing officer will also sign this section, and indicate'title.

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

·ALIEN PROCESSING 36

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

C. Certificate of Service

Serving officer must complete.

16. Date - Date NTA was served.

17. Method - The method of service on the alien. Indicate with an "x",

18. Attached is a list of organiiations and attorneys, which provide free legal services - If list was provided with the NTA, indicate with an "x",

19. The alien' was provided oral notice in the . langiJage .... -

If the NTA, was personally served, indicate.with an 'x"~at the. form.

was explained to the alien. Note, in the underlined section, the .

language used to expl~ the NT A. ,

~ ~ '.'

20. Signature of Responclent if PersonallY Served - Signature of

alien, ifNTA was personally served. . , '

21. Signature and Title of Officer - Signature and title of serving officer (to be completed regardless of how the NTA was served),

XI. SPANISH NAME STRUCTURE

1. The following information: is provided to the ICE officer/agent as a guide in using Spanish names in tdien processing.

2. The filing system for Spanish natlles,usedbylCE is. based .uPQn.tbe names as they are used ill. SpanIsh rather than. in the English system. It is. therefore. almost iplpOssible to conduct a search by name with any degree of thoroughness if the name is not full and complete by

Spanish standards. .

3. The basic difference between Spanish and English names is the fact that two last names are used in Spanis14 whereas only one last name is used in English. The surname of the rather goes. before that of the mother and the two surnames mayor may not be Joined by the conjunction "yll or by a hyphen, i.e .• Jesus Garcia y Gonzales' Jesus Garcia-Gonzales, or Jesus Garcia Gonzales.

ICE ACADEMY'

"'j' "

8/1212004'

ALlEN PRQCESSING 37

PARTICIPANT W0RlQ100K

I

4. This practice originated in Spain in medieval times when a coat of arms was based upon the two family names united in marriage. It has continued down to the present time. The inclusion of the second surname is absolutely essential when processing someone of

. Hispanic origin. So many Hispanics have the same first name and first surname that positive identification would be very difficult without the inclusion of the second surname. For example, there are thousands of people with the name Jose Garcia.

5. The addition of the secondsurname narrows the number of names to be checked.

, 6. "When processing an unmarried individual (male or female), the father's surname should be written first followed by the mother's surname and the first name in that order. The first and second surname should be separated with a hyphen.

AM 2703.05

)

Example:

JUan Ramirez-Canales - First Name - Juan

Father's Surname - Ramirez Mother's Surname - Canales

/

7. A Spanish female retains her father's surname after marriage but she drops the surname of her mother. The surname of her father will be followed by the word "de" (NOT capitalized). The "de" is followed by her husband's first surname (the surname of his father).

Example:

If a woman named Marcela Garza-Hernandez marries Juan Ramirez-Canales, her name becomes Marcela Garza de Ramirez.

First Name - Marcela

Female's Father's Name - Garza Husband's Father's Name - Ramirez

8. In the event her husband should die, Marcela would then use the name Marcela Garza Vda. de Ramirez. "Vda." is.the abbreviation for "viuda" (widow). The English translation is Marcela Garza, widow of Ramirez .

9. The "dell which appears in the name of a married woman is not considered a part of her name but merely denotes the fact that she is

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212~04 .

ALIEN PROCESSING 38

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

married. There are, however, many Spanish names in which "De," "Del," "De 4" and "La" are an integral part and should not be confused with the "de" for marriage, Exainples are "De Alida, Del Conde, De La Cruz. andDe La Rosa," In tbis~instanee, the "tie;' is capitalized. These names should be treated as one unit, not two separate names.

)

Example:

Paula Amaya De Jesus (single woman)

First Name - Paula

·.Father's SUIIlanie'-Ainaya ..

Mother's Surname - De Jesus

Rosa Morales de De Anda (n:Uurled wbIIiln) . First Name -Rosa

Father's Surname - Morales Husband's Surname - De Anda

10. In many Spanish first names, religious overtones are, given to . child;t'en by their parents. Such names as Maria de Lourdes and Maria de los Angeles are frequently encountered. These are first names, and should not be confused with surnames. Note that, in this iilstance~ the "de" and "de los" are not capitalized.

J ,

11. It is also not unusual to find boys with a girl's middle name, such as Jose Maria Velasquez.1todrlgUez. The Maria is derived from the

Vjrgin Mary. ' . .

. .-' ,( .. ~! .. , l ,J '

12. Many Spanish names are pronounced alike and spelled differently.

Care must be taken to assure that every effort is made to spell the names correctly.

13. If there is any difficulty in tIilderstandib.g or correctly spelling a Spanish name, the subject should be asked to write the name.

"

ICE ACADEMY 8/12'12004'

ALIEN PR.:0CE.SSING " .39

I

I

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

'j

XII. SUMMARY REVIEW QUESTIONS

1. What is the purpose of an A-File in alien processing?

2. What is Form 1-826:. To whom is it served? When is it served?

/

3. What is Form 1-213? What are the critical elements that must be

established on' an 1-213? .

«\,'o~ 0 I'i )(~(.W\. \--~~~\

4. What are Forms 1-263A and B and I-215C

"' .

-,.:; y

/ ,7' ~-

~~ 'l~ (

o .

v> .'

,/ t...;?

5. What is Form 1-217?

6. What is Form 1-265? What documents serve as supporting evidence for the 1-265?

,

ICE ACADEMY 8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 40

PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK

7. What is Form 1-21 O? _A

... ";>', ,'f ',JI"

-J \.~. ('

J ~~ J

)

8. What is Forni I~.862? Is an 1-862 ever'§etwed with an I-21m

'y " ·'t

Who executes Certifi~ate.0fServi~e on Form 1-8627

I", , v, .,.f::. ",; _~ii

,:'1- . ' •.

'\ ~ "t: "

;.) .<:~

.f

10. What is Form, I-200? When is FollP 1·200 issued ~d served?

/ ) ~~'!);" =.':

. ":'

ICE ACADEMY· 8/12/2004 '

ALIEN PR(jC~SSI.N<! ····41

P ARTICIP.ANT WORKBOOK

j

XIII. ALIEN PROCESSING APPENDIX FOR STUDENT WORKBOOK

\

j

1. Alien Processing Flowchart

2. 1-826 - Notice of Rights and Request for Disposition

3. 1-215C - Affidavit in an Administrative Proceeding

4. 1-263B - Record ofSwom Statement (2 pages) $. 1-263A - Jurat

6. 1-213 - Record ofDeportablelInadmissible Alien

7. 1-217 - Information for Travel Document or Passport

8. Instructions for Completing 1-217 (3 pages)

9. G-197 - Memorandum for File (prosecution Worksheet)

10. 1-265 - Notice to Appear, Bond and Custody Processing Sheet 11.1-210-Notice of Action- Voluntary Departure

12.1-862 - Notice to Appear (2 pages)

13. 1-851 -Notice of Intent to Issue a Final Administrative Deportation Order (2 pages)

14. 1-830 - Notice to EOIR: Alien Address

15. EOIR-33 - Change of Address Fonn

16. 1-200 - Warrant for Arrest of Alien

17. 1-286 - Notice of Custody Determination

18. 1-220A - Order of Release on Recognizance

19. 1-203 - Order to Detain or Release Alien

20.1-205 - Warrant of RemovallDeportation (2 pages) 21. I-851A - Final Ad.n:iinistrative Removal Order

22.1-294 - Warning to Alien Ordered Removed or Deported 23. I-220B - Order of Supervision

24.1-831- Continuation Page

25. G-28 - Notice of Entry as Attorney or Representative

26. 1-43 - Baggage and Personal Effects of Detained Alien

27. Blank 1-213 for Laboratory Exercise

28. Blank.I-265 for Laboratory Exercise

29. Blank 1-21SC for Laboratory Exercise

39. Inadmissibility Charge Codes/Sections of LawlDescription (3 pages)

3 i. Inadmissible at Entry Charge Codes/Sections ofLawJDescription (3 pages) 32. Deportable Charge Codes/Sections of Law/Description (2 pages)

ICEACAD~MY 8/1212004

ALIEN PROCESSING 42

I

AIJIEN PROCESSING FLOWCIiART

, s.-.-tIuIIojIiI:r I

. J

I ~--.. I

I u.s.~ I -.. I

1 ~~ I

-

f ~- , ~ ... u.s. I

I ,

lo..n .... aaa I

~--

I ------ ... , II _1oIIZIS I

_ ..... 2'1C1 .......

I ZtO--..--. ...

~o...-.

.

I ~1413

I .... "- } H··T_O-I

. ~=4~': c..,...I4'7

I

1"-:::-1 X2'1C1~

C._14II5

_.IoIGH'tA

_ECIRoI:I3

1JIl ............

~1ooIXI

, I ~ J-

_=WA.

. r .

I c.---:::!_. I

4-----.)

----. ........

r -

~-- ~"-- a.-_

~ 14C15-... =" .'11 *"1aIY ~

I41D __ ~"........-, ........

~ ........... s.,.iI'Iu.s.

J 4~~1

I Menu~ II~- --1

·'--1 v.s. ~t or JDStiee

Ii:mmgration _ NamraIization Service

Notice of Rights and Request for Dispositiol\

. rue No. Mile N.ni:e.r

Name of Alien - LAST NAME, First name Middle Name

.~~:'-------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTICE OF BIGHTS

You have been arrested because immigration officers believe that you are illegally in the United Stares. You

. have the right to a hearing before the Immigration Court to determine whether you may remain in me United States. If you request a hearing, you may be detained in custody or you may be eligible to be released on bond. until your hearing date. In the alternative. yO!! may request to rerum to your country as soon as possible. without a hearing.

You have the right 1'O c:oIuacr an anomey or other legal represenrive to represent you at your hearing, or [0 answer any questions regarding your legal rights in the United States. Upon you request. the officer who £ave you tilis notice 'Will· provide you with a list of legal organizations that may represent you for free or for a s~ fee. You have the right to communicate with the eoasularor diplomatic officers from your coUlltl:')'. You may use a telephone I~ call a lawyer. other legal representative, or consular officer at any time prior to your departure from the United StateS.

Alien Checks One

REQtJEST FOR DISPOSmON

o I request a hearing before the Immigration Cou..."'t to determine whether or not I may remain iIi the

iIi$ United States.

o I believe I face harm if I rerum to my country; My case will be referred to the Immigration Court

~L"liti2.Is.,..,··....,- for a bearing.

o I acL."'nit thzt I am in the United States illegally. and I believe! do not fae~ harm if I return to my

-..::--

Initials COUntry. I give ~ my right to a hearing before the Immigration Coun. I wish to retU.m to my

country as soon as arrangements can be made to effect my departure. I understa!!.d that I may be held in detention until my departUre.

Signature 'of Alien

Date Signed

SiJ1'WUI'e of Subject

Date

CERTIFICATION OF SERVICE

Completed by Serving Officer

CI Notice read by subject Check one laI\:.c-ucge used tel explain fom

o Notice read to subject by Name. of offie.er/inte-;j?. in me (i.e.! English, SD2nish) laIl:.0U2.ge.

Prin ted Name of Serving Of ric.er

Printed name of ,Inte.rpreter (if appl.) Name of mt=:pret:r' (Prim)

Date and Ti."IIe Served

S::re:nature of Servi.ng Offie.er

Sigrwur: of Officer

AFFIDAVIT

IN AN'ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING Name of Alien - LAS! NAME, FirSt Name Middle Name

le: ~ ___

- :CuTeoAT Canplete ~dress where statement 'Ior"aS executed

FILE NO.--....A_-.:.F,::i;::.:le=--Number.:.' ...::.... _

OATE~ __ ~Da~t~e~St=a~t~em~en~~~Ex~ec.==u~t~ed~' _

)re the following officer of the U.S. immigration and Naturalization Service: Printed Name of offic.er tald:02

, S tati!men t

leI..an.,oua2:e used to take statement language. Interpreter Name of Interpreter Qr word J'Not" used.

I Name of Alien -First' Middle last Name acknOwledge that the abOve-named officer has identified himself to me as an Qfficer of the United States immigration and Naturalization Service, authorized by Jaw to ad.mjnister oaths and take testimony in connection with the enforcement of the Immigration and 'Nationality laWS of the United States. He has informed me that he desires to take my'sworn statement regarding:

My identity, alien5e and my status in the United States

He has told me that my statement!."ust be freely and voluntarily given and has advised me'of these'rights:

You have been arrested becal.lS;~it is !ielievect you are an'alien not laWfully entitled to be or remain in the United States.

"ou 'have the right to be represented by counsel of your choice at no expense to the GOvernment.

Any statement you make may be:used against yOu In a subsequent administrative proceeding.

A decision will be made within 24 hoUrs or less as to whether you will be ecntinued in custody'or releaSed on bor:d or recognizance.

You are provided ~ith a list of the available free fegal servie~ in. this distrj~ wl'lichare qualified'andlor

recognized by the Immigration and Natura.liUtion Service. ..

am 'willing to' rr.ake"a statement Without anyone else being J',Iresent. I swear that I will teU thetru~h. the whoie truth,

and nothing but the truth, so help me, God. . • , ,

)

3e;n£1 duly sworn, I make the following sta.tement:

(M)

My true and c.cmplete MIre is (Name) ", ! have never used any other name. ! 'Ioras

I was born on (Date of Birth) at (Ci~ l'0'I0r'n: State: Couhtry of Birth). I am a citizen

and national, of' (COuntrv of CitizenshiP"ationaIity), as are my parents. ! last entered

the umted States on (Date of Most Recent Entty) , near (U.S. Port of Entry). I entered the United Stat~ illegally by crOSSing the border fran,(Mexi:c.0tcam.aa) by Method. (i.e.Foot, '!rue.. I was not L-,spec.te by United States Irnnigration Officials wnen I entered. lhiS is my first entry into the United States. ! have nothing further to add to "this statement.

Read the statement to the alien once it is completed. If there is no objection' to t.'"e ccnten b-·~ alien sign name underneath. last line of statement, and place his initials next to &1/

:'3 that have bee;t identified: and corrected. '

--

u. S. Oep3rtment of Justice

Immigration and N.turafization Service

AFF1PAVIT

IN AN AOMINISTRA TIVE,PROCeEOING

~U:.lENO._.:..- _

DATE,' '"

"

v , .

INRe: ~ ~~ ~~~~~~---

:XEcurEOAT._, ~_~ ~ ~~~~ __ ~~ __

Befor~ the foUowing officer at the U.s. I mmigratiDn and NatlJralizatic.n Service:

h •• ,'

,in t~e -'-- --.i ......... __ Iangtlage. rnterpreter ~----'-_:__-----~

I, " :. " ,',' '. ", " " . , , , ' 'j acknowledge that thE!' abo~ed otti~r~ identified himself to me asan officetof the United States Immigration anQ,NatiJralization seryiQE!.:~UJ~O, 'I')y

IiiV' to administer oaths and take t~imClny in connection wfthtne eriforcementof the,'lrTi' ' 'n:' 'tt-

ality laws of the ~nited Stat~.H~ has infaimed me that ~ Clesi~,~ti" ~e, my SYiQr,fsta : ~ ~~ing: '

'." , ~ I ~ <

He has tord me t~tmy s~t~mftnt~t be freely~nd vOluntarily given and lias advised me of, ihese'r.fght$~,

.. . ' . '.

~

You have befi!n arrested beeause it is believed you are an alien not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the

United States.' .' ' , ,

You have the right to be represented by counsel of your chQice at no elCp~e to the Governmen,t.

• ... I ';'

)

Any statement YClu make may be used against you in a~ub$equent administr;ative p!"OC:eeding.

A dec::ision wiU ben:tacewl,t/'lin 24 hours or less as to whether you will be continued in custody or r:eleased

, on bond or recognizance. ,.' ' '

You are prl)Vided with, a list of the availabll! fr~ legal services in thi$ district whic:h are qualified and lor

r.ecogniZed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. ' .

.

I am. wi II!ng. ,to make,a statement wltr.wDtli~\anyoneelse ~I}gp~~m.) sw~ ithav~ rfi,'.:, t~lJi the tru!h. the whole trun,.

and nothing but the truth; so help me. God.' -. . . . " . ',':~" 1:'_.

. .• i' ,.u

Being duly sworn, I make the following statement:

U$. Department of Justice

"j Imwimtion and Naturalization Service

Office: ~ __

Record of Sworn Statement

File: _

Satementby: __

In~eC~o~ _

At: Date: _

Bcfo~; ~--~~~---------------------------------------

(N .. e, •• d' Til!:)

Interpreter; _

In-the: i.uguase

I am an officer !lfthe United States Immigralion and Natllralization Service, authorized by law ro administer oaths and take testimony in connection with the enforcement of !be Immigration and Nationality laws of me Unit~ States. I desire to take your SIlII'orn statement ~gafding:

Before I ask YDU allY qucstiollS.1DU must uDdcntaDd your rights.

You have been amsted bccaJ.lse it is believed yoQ at: an alien ftOI: lawfully entitled to be or remain in the UDited States. You have 'Ihc right to be~ted by CDunsel of your choic: at 110 exp:nse to the: govemml:lIt.

Yau have • righuo berep~ by cmmsel of your c:boica at 110 expensllllO ~GoVCl'nl!lCl1t

Any SIat.e:maIt yea make may be 11S'CCl apinst yoQ in a subseqacmt admillistrative proceeding.

A decision will bemadc within 24 hollIS or less as to wheller you will be CDntiDllIICi in custody or J'deasc:d on bond or on n=ognizance. You an: provided wit! a.list of the aVllilable 6= lepl services in thil district wbich II'e qualified and/or ncogaize4 by the bTmigmion and Natmalization ScrvicL

j

Q. Do you wish to have a lawyer or any other person present to advise you? -A.

Q. Are you willing to allswermy questions atthis time? A.

Q. Do you swear Ibat all the S1BtcmJlntsyou are about to make will be the tnlh, the whole tl;uth aDd DOthing but the tram, S') help you God?

A.

i

j

/

}

J havli..& tg[ haY=- had read to me) the fO!1:Joing statement.

~siuir2g of.p:ges. '"" paces. ~ Stale that the answers made therein by me are

tnH: and com:cs 20 the- best or my knowlt:dsc and bc:Iic:f and that this state-

mcftt is a full, Ulle, and eerreee re::ord of my inten"option on the date:

iJu:I.iI:Uc:d by the above-namc:d orfic.c:r of the: immigration and Naturalization

Sc:rvia:. I have initialed each page: of this statement land the correction(s) ftOlI!dODpage($)".~~~~."~~~::~~~:::~ .. ~; .. ~1f~ain corrected mistakes •

. Signature of alien

s.-- .

)

'/

$u!Jsc:ril:Icd.and ~ to Wore me at .. ~~~~.~~~ .. ~ .. 1:~~~.c:>~ Where

statsnent"was exe.c:.uted . Date Statement Executed

.................. _ _ :. " .crl .

Signature of officer who prepared Statement

......................................................................................................

Jtl!CORD OF SWORN STATEMENT.

,

j

1£.DeparnneDt!rJ~et

mmigration and NanUzIfDtion Service

Record of DeportableJI.nadmissible Alien

so

.

l+:~

i~

:Bt' IbmC(CAPS) ram MiIIdIe .' S= lim £Y= I~

f) (2) (S) (4)

:011IIII)' of Citi:=nShip (l'asport NW'I1l.= and ~ of lssut I fik Nwnbc: H.ei:m WeigIn 0c=upII;i00

6) (7) (8) (9) (lO) (II)

i,S.W= Sca:s or Marks

12) ~ (13)

lm, PI=. Time, MIWICI" of.l..:lS1 ftItry I Pa.s.scn!er Boar4t:d At F..BJ., No. o Sinp: 0 DiYlll"l:Cd (17)

14) - (IS) (16) CMatrie4QWiIlowl:r OSeparat: i

iumbct. S= City. Provine: (SQiC:) a.'"U! Q)1Il1tI')' ofP=-:nt .R.;:sidence MI:tboc! cfJ..ocatioDl~

U) (19)

)au: of Sinh .o.m. of ActIon Loation Code (ACi'Ne:ar) Ouc:d::Hcur

20) (21) - (22) (23) all.)

:ny, PrcviDee (SQie) and CCIII11II'Y ofElinh ,loR FCIITII (Type &; No.) 0 l.iftef:1 CJ Not Lifted By

2.;;) CI (27) (28) '.

ilV lssui:1g !'CSt zrui NIV Number Soc::iaI Sc:urit)' AI:I:our.Il NarIIe Swus at Enay I Swus Whm Found

29) . (30) (31) (32)

m: Visa lssI:c:1 Socill Sec:uril)' Numilcr LaJlb ofTlIDel1l=pll;y ill u.s,

~:;) (34) (3S)

1IWi;r'IIic&:l Ilc:=d Crimil:lal ICI:Con!.

36) (37)

~-. A4cIn:u. Ulel Naziem'llity of Spouse (M&idCl'l Name. if~) , NIIIIIbcr INaIiorwuy miIIor dlQdrc:n

'38) (l9)

·at!W's Name. Na&icll'llil)'.lII'ld Addm.s.. if KnoWJI MclftC"'$ Pn:scnt am! MalclCl'l N.imcs. Ncio.aaUl)'. and Addni:ss. if ~

40) (41)

flonics DIIc!JIr.:Ipcny ill u.s, Not 11\ Jmme4ial': PossessJco F~d?14l) l~ Syswns {,;IIec:ItS omJplered I CharF CocIc Wo:d(s)

':';oac o.m:d o See Fonnl-'S (42) . . O-Ycs 0 No (44) (45) ..

S' 'rId:1ffSlf(t.:llStY(cummt) us, emploY=' T)'PC of EmpIoym:m , Sllcy , Smplo)'Cd fftlmIro

(47) $(48) Hr. (49)

_ .fCU&line J'W'Ii=lI/S under whidl alien _ loczze4lappn:Mndcd. ilIdude clc:Wls not shown &bon reFCfinI tiD!c:. JII.1= IIlII mlnMl' of' Jut CftII')'. ~

1IUj. alWllple.i CIIUy. or 11'1)' orhc:r efttry, and e!=ncnu which cmblish adminiStmln and/or criminal viola:ion. InCicaIe _ and n:lW of_I to illlI:riar.)

)-Namti~

!w inclyd::

mod ~f location/apprehension -

Iienage and clq)onabiIiry

irIal History (COVERED IN LESSOt."\! ?LAN)

:altlllHiunanitarian AspectS

ligmc:e Information

mmendations

as

.

-

(51)

= lias IIe:ft advised of eommwicalioll =rivllqes ~) ! (Sipsal'.lm: 1M Tn!: arlNS Offlml)

~ R:!:=iYCl1: (Sl:bjca.a.nd~) (R::pcnQ(~) I

.

Office:: (53) 1

:

011: at (time)

'.'

~ (54)

E:caminil'lg 0fIic:cr. (S5) ... ,

)

./

/'fe ; rr.un I

;loU1 ~.eco

U.S. DepartmCllt or JlIstiee lmntignuiOIl md Natarali:.ation Service

Information for Travel Document or Passport

- -

I. """- los...

- -

1. no... Names Usc6 .............. lIy 4. CiIizaahip

-

s, 0... pfBil1h t """'ofllinh

-

7, Hoi;bI (ciPl ]E»eS 1 Hair ("",,,,erine I MItts or 5coors

C, ......... UrJ" CUyIOI'bco:ofllinll I ~ DlsIMc:c and 1:limc:uGn N Place , 1I, .. h I ..... I'llis I..oqr:. C;ry

III. If citizI:asIrip is Dill'_ ...... C-ay of BinI<. i-.'lpila a, If Na!uIIIi=l ill .., ,_"'. sa. ... iOI. -nd I'I....-OC~. CaliIiCIIC: NlIInbc:f.lIIIII Sate llaw Cili:ttnship Was

A--=-

It. ,.....Lacoul .. andDoiatYCllS)ofAllcadanc."rFalei"'_ II N.au:<, r.""" 1._ ..... Dales (Y ...... , of ~ ofl'orcia:so a..r.Iuo:s. IaciIoItt 0. .. and

.......... '" ..... """,_ ("t:n:IIIIIDy 1hlII May lIave a.:a.1I_&Iid.

Il. I.uI "-- ~. c-, 1IlCili=lsllipca- DaI. Df~1

u. Mdn:a ill c:-..,. .. n_ fonoip ......... (st.:ow DIIIes o(~ and IaIIIIIJIIIIIIIn ....... :n. n:

--

15. I'I.c ofElllrr iaao IJaiIcI.f SIMes I Dole III inII1 iatol./aill=l SIaIcs

16. List Dole _ ~ of ~ _ ~ 0>£ '-""'- Bini> Ctrir-. 8aIIritadI < .nt ...... .. 1>. __ Dflcladia,.s-ryn-orMilillry s...-=.c:-ur .... u..u

.... ScrialIMldloer.ail'lll:a. olllldllCliaa .... D.ocIarp l

17. il:i':: .... orTrawelO":- ... P;mporIa/TIIIIC:..tI:atty IIYes 0:-10 ~I __ .) If .... bjoc:tDidHol ...... T~"'IlUouooaIl ... Puspcn.T1lIl""rEatty.'"

Dou IfIIotI:Soscb aDacrealt NDw.1adiaIIc WIIeoiooI'iMrOlQiecd Cae I Y ... II Nt> ...... ,1< ... WhrII "!IIlocn II W_Obtaiood. wm.lCiDoIofDDcumalt 1'1" W ..... d What

llcaluofll

-

I&. Fadocr's HallIe fDalcrrlBmh r ...... ofBidIJ

_. -

"-Addra:I .. '

J

-- I ,.., ofBiftil !

"Mo!bor'S ......... N..e ... I Dale "rnlllil

--

'-Addn:u

-

lO. ~ adaIIoIuIIip lUIII AIIdr&sIa t:l aa.;.-c "braid

.-

n .............. 7 CI EacIucIeoI 0 ~ 0 a.-..I \oJ ,,- ... 110 DI:poft na die \111 • ..:1_

-(->-. . , ria(pOtl) .. - -- - • __ lOt~) _ .. .

:12. Indicae '110 ...... 1:\:_ AmISIIIlI.In ~ ..... 1'WIIic InsriIlIIioD III tlv:c-u, til·......." a *' _ . .;.0 ....... , •• ('iIi:&I:oo eYes lNt> U .... Givellales .....

- -

23. Name. NaIicJnaIiIy ad ........ Address of Spoa ............... JI'IKc ofM ..... "" s

- -

2t !oI:moes. A ..... _ Addn:ssrsol All C'IoddItft

25. If~ Dc;ooasabIr: 1OCaada. GveIl;ae UN! !'I'll of AniYII ill Ctn:ada.....s N-='" v._ (

- ...... 1-211 Cilev. l-lIl-77IY

PREPARATION OF FORM 1-217.

INFORMATION FOR TRAVEL DOCUMENT OR PASSPORT

The fonowing relates to the preparation of Form 1-217. The numbers below refer to the numbered blocks on the;Form 1-217.

(TOP) DATE PREPA;RED - Date form prepared.

(TOP) FILE - Refers to the "A" file number. wen the number. if known., or leave blank.

. .

1) NAME - Subject's complete name: last name first. then first and middle names.

2) SEX - Male or female ..

. .. '

3) OTHER NAMES USED OR KNOWN BY - Any and all aliases, nicknames, maiden name ere.

4) CITIZENSHIP - Subject's country of Citizenship.

S) DATE OF :JJ~rH - Subject'S date of birth in mmJddlyy fo~.

\.

) !

. . ".

6) PLACE OF BIRTH - City. town, or ranch; state, province. etc.; and countty of-birth.

7) HEIGHT - Height in feet and inches.

WEIGHT - Weight in pounds. EYES - Color of eyes.

HAIR - Color of hair.

COMPLEXION - Light, medium, dark. very cark

MARKS OR SCARS - Identifiable -marks, scars or tattoos. pc.detailed. (i.e. Thin meat scar- over left eyebrow).

8) NEAREST LARGE CITY TO PLACE OF BIRTH - Name of city. state or province. and coumry.

9) DISTANCE AND DIRECTION OF PLACE OF BIRTH FROM THIS LARGE CITY - As directed, place distance and direction (i.e. lOG miles NNWJ.

lO)lF CITIZENSHIP IS DIFFERENT ... - - Explain why coup,tIy of citizenship noted is different than coum:ry of birth. If same, insert "Not applicable" •

-- .. \

ll)NA..'Pv.1ES, LOCATIONS AND DATES OF ATTENDANCE OF FOREIGN SCHOOLS - Name and give location of all schools attended with years in attendance.

12) FOREIGN CHURCHES· Name and giv~ location of all churches attended with years in ancndanc~, Note any recorded ceremonies performed at related church (i.e,

marriage, baptism. etC.). ; . . ,:' " '

13) LAST PE&"~i" AnDRESS IN COU.NTRY OF CITIZENSH:1P - Most recent

address in country of citizenship. .

14) ADDRESS IN COUNTRY OF LAST FO~lGN ,RESIDENCE - Most recent foreign address (if different than num~er 13). If same as number 13, indicate "Same as above".

15) PLACE OF D-UV 000 THE UNITED STATES - Detailed'description of place of

enay. Le., '''4 miles West SYS, If etc. . :...

DATE OF E..?tITRY INTO THE UNITED STATES ..: Date hi'MMJDDIYY format.

16) LIST DATE AND PLACE OF ISSUANCE A.l\'D NUMBER. OF PASSPORT ••• ·If a . travel document C)f passportw2$,J.~~~d. so in.(ijcate~ IdeI,1~ the type of document. issued, when issued. and . where 'issUed. AiSoindlcate what happened to the doeumem, if not in alien's possession.

17) Il"f PO$SESSION OF TRAVEL DOCUMENT OR PASSPORT AT TIME OF El\"TRY ••• - Check "Yes" in appropriate ~ea (at entry. ever obtained) if a travf;l

. document Of pisspon 'was issued. Identify the type' of document issued, when issued. and w~isSlled. Also indicate what happened to the docwp.cnt, if not m.allen's . possessicn, ...... , .

)

18)FATBER'S NAME - Father's fUll name.

D,A.TE OF BIRTH - Date of father's birth if known. Otherwise. insert ·unknown." PLACE OF BIRTH - Name of town. city t or ranch; state or pmV.ince; and country of father's birth: if known.

",,~'" ",.PREsEN,r ADDRESS "" .. Eatherc's"J:'~m a~. (stre=t.house-number. city,state.· .,~,' cC)unny'of Iesid=ce) lftnown. "btb~~~:~rt- ·.o~~If f'ir.heris deceas~4f

insen "deceased ."

19) MOTHER'S MAIDEN NA.1\1E - Mother'S complete name,including maiden name~ D,A.TE OF BIRTH - Date ofmother's.birth if known. Otherwise, Insert -unknown:" PLACE OF BIRTH - Name' of town. city, or ranch; state or province; and country of mother's birth. if known.

pREsENT 4».D.RESS - Mother's present address (street, house munber.Cizy, state, country of residence) if known. OtherWise. insen "Unknown."" If mother is deceased, insert fI deceased ."

20)N.A-l\m, RELATIONSHIP, AND ADDRESSES OF RELATIVES ABROAD ., Names, rel~tioIl$hip. and ac:ldres~es o~f.t;hesubj~t·$ relatives wp-o l;iveo~d~,the:c~

of his~peonanent residence or citizenship. . .

21) PBEVIOUSLY EXCLUDED, DEPORTED ••• - Check appropriate box, and insert . date, place and coumry of deparm.r=. If not applicable, inSert "Not Applicable. II .

22) INDICATE WBETBER EVER ARRESTED ••• - Check "Yes" or "No.... Give dates and places of mestljncarcention. if not applit;able, insert "Not Applicable. It

23) NAME, NATIONALITY, ADDRESS OF SPOUSE - Provide name. nationality and address of current spouse or common-law spouse. If not applicable. note "Not .

Applicable" • .

24)NAMES, AGES, AND ADDRESSES OF ALL CHILDREN - Insert aD available infonnation requested. If certain details are unknown. mark these ·Unknown." If not applicable. mark "Not Applicable:" .

25) IF NON-cANADlAN DEPORTABLE TO CANADA ••• - Date and POE in Canada and name of vessel if crewman. If not applicable. mark "Not Applicable" .

)

File: A-F.il,e Number

D Processing Date

• a~ _

MAMO,RANDfJM FOR FIL,E

Name of Alien - -LAST NAME, First N'eme Middle Name

~ijecc __

Ie aec:crdimc:e with me provisions of 8 CFll 28i.2. invesdsac.on has be= alnduc:red in ibe

subject's c:a.se in view of an cpare.uf violation of .

Statutory Vio~ation (i,e. 8 USC 1325, 8 usc 1326)

C Compfaitlt for violation of ....;... _

cu:ho.d:ed by me U. S. At=m.ey.

D'Ihis inclividua! case was cieC:ua.ed by me U. s. ~.At=t:ley.

o PoSsible p :osec::a.tion was closed by' me I::u:isratio~ and Namralizadcn:1 Semee under . 8CFR 287.2 withoutpresentationtct:&e U.s. Attomey cecai1se:

'.

..

o Tae:e hu ~eeD nO Ticla:ioa •

D Tae Sca;=te of IJ.mlwlons bas rom.

o Tne.,r.:bjecr·s·'fa.i1are co re,lste: as re~i:ed by Section 262(a) of the I II: N Act was.Dor; -lliu1 and th1It subjeet has now c:om~lid wich chat Se:::tioa..

. . ,

o Tne su-bjec::'s iailcre ;:0 ,he noQ.ce of adc:ress as reauited b)' Section 265 of ::u: III N Act was c:ri:u:=:tioczl or due co ipctz=c:e and the subject has DOC compUec! with th.a: Section.

D Tne ali=.'s fallure to ha.ve in his pe:sonzl possession Allen Res!.smLtion Recd:!t Card or Certirication or Aliea Registration as rewired lUuie:

Se::::iOc 264(e) of the I at N Act was w:s::tc=n011al or ciue to ignorance. P:osec&tiOc uncie: See:icm 264( e) or the Ai:: is not trUraftteci.

o Tae ~:,je:::trep::se:te: himself as a USC saIdy for the ?u!:pose of obtaining em1210vmce which he c:culci or 'Would have obta..illcd even mOl.lgh he had

fally disd.osecI his C'Ue naticcwcy aa.d :s:.:~. '

[j Tnis case is within a cl~ de=:!arecI ~ wtiWt& by chI!:. appropriate u.s,

Attorney to be unworthy ot cons:.cie:'&t1on. '

It thcreEore appeua. chat cru:.huu prosecuc.:n is nOf wa:i-a:1tI~d cd chole the case should lie dosed purs;:mt to 0.1. 287. puagraph 1".

C Decli:necI by me U.S • .!teomey on bla:ket or &=e:,&1 wal,."e:.

'fCheck tlUs box if m (8 USC 1325) that- is a1way~ decllned in your district.

\ )

Processing Offieerl s Signature & Name

(NGIIll e) Process:ing Officer's Title

.. fTi.:!.e)

'lMr:D STATZS D"'~ 01" J'QsnCE z-i~"'1I-..ah: __ ~

h_ c;.m ' ...... 1-.1;; x

_ GPe •• ,...S5

Notice to Appear, Bond, and Custody Processing Sheet

J

.

I(:-A1iI:A'$ - .

, .• ~ c- '~inlI f FilcSo. ·ipaccorp~·

.

Add=-

~Al~q.wons (aucb......-_if~ o 0::I.i:= 1IftlI=: sc:=iOft III lIS i~I'" o C::arscd W!de:r s=iac. 2S7 lIS lIcpan;:&b1c:

1

(COVERED IN lESSON Pl.AN) ~

. .

0 A.'Ulnley 0(:11=,""

.kpl'cmiIIJ Evidellce

3. AD'OmONAl. FACTOas TO!! COl'<-sII:)s.!ti FOlt SC»-'l'/Ct;STODY Dnn.~nON'

l.1s I. p::iI:ioc or .,,11=0: ;:aei:!S ior z:.is ~ 0: ~ ~ ==-.r.:.~ ~l&ill) " .

.

! z. TOIIl-= apJ:I~ ""-.i=s? ll:Iased o,"it 0:il:Itt?

.8occ:!::! l:II:fa.r=? .

') Bollllb~? P.:rw -.Iim:s, Co:::;UcI "':.:!I t='II:S of' Ot'R?

I =m balm of su3jct. ~ ZIIII ;l;'.kI:Q CEQiZi: if vIilI::' c.i:=.:I J=>

-'. Tol:Ll == ill. c.s .. 4bw cd loc:::;:illll: ~ c'.:lI iF=::Ji: ~ 0: 0Ilu:.";i)

.

.

5. !'.e:sc::If I'l'OPL"lY ill t:.5. (Lic;I..-it.! == IICIfI4iqu:e ::=l ""

.

- .

.

-

6. hIIU.'Y m=:IIm'.s m u.s. (.s;::Iovse. =nar= ~~) ~;"US if dir-.c-cm dwlsubj=',

.

1. Ec;Il"l'==t hiRlzy:(OIl= t::= ===.l .

&. 0tI:c: Ca=lr.s (i.e. faIR~.:w:::;t= n::=. u::Ap~ wier::: a!~. =:J

C. Thr=c."Sipcd·~ OVID wilb:lt:~ !-"I'A o "-"TA c=::c:s{Co4e) (h,,==)

Si~na=:IM lif.I~ 0' of!i:=;

%l.App:ovc:l lIS = lcpl SII:~ .

t== 01=:

SiPl= an4 title of scrvi= r:IiIUIISC!:

0lI !he =~ infOlllla!il:lfl I l1aYC s=:1he: iollewi.q batsIt S J:l:If.c; O!&:::

Sir..aziirc :IIIlIlille or~l: oF.i:::al:

FIle No. A-File Nunber

Canplete Name of Alien - First Middle Last Caaplete Current o.s. Aqdress

Dati!:

Date Form Issued

P1:ase note: The blocks checked below r~late to action taken in your ease.

O:leck boxes that apply to Alien I s Cas

o You have violated the terms of your admission as a IlommInig.-ant. Consequently, the pm::tlission previously granted you to mnam in the United States is rescinded. You are: required to acpart from the Uni~ed States at your own expense on or before

date VD exoires (see below) . .' .

[J In ae::ord2nt: with a decision mad.c in your case, you are required to depart from the United States at your own expense en or before date VD eXpires .(120 days from issue date if served instead of !U'A)

. approved or

o Your request for an extenSion of tim.: in which to depart from the united States has been denied • You are

requited to dcpan on or before new cia te or original cia te

o The amount of rime tim you have been .gra:ated to depart volunwily is the maximum allowable under. the law in your situation. You are, therefore. prohibited from applying for or being granted. any further voluntary departure.

. ,

"'our r-..qucst for voluntary departure has bee:n ci:nied. since you were previously granted volum.a.ry departure and failed. to depa."t.

o You are inelisible for voluntary depzn:ure because you were p~ously permincd to depart \"Olunwily after you were found inadmissible as an alien who was present without h2.1.-mg been admitted or paroled.

o Y 0'.1 ;mlSt notify ibis office em or before of the a..~geim:m:s yonllave made let dfea your

dcpmtlre. including the dare, place and xoan.ner. Us: the cnc:losccl self-addressed card to notify this office regardlz!..g Qepartllre ar.mg:ments. Postage is not required. At the time of your deomure. yOU must mrrencU:r Form 1-94. ARRIVAL-DEPARTURE RECORD. in accorclatlee with insmu:tions on thaI fonn.

NOTICE: Fallure to.depart on or befon the specified date may result in the withdra )1'1 Qf voJ1lDt2%y depantm: and action bdng taken to effect your removal. Failure to depart on or before the spUined date may a,iso subject you to a possible chit pemIty of Dot less than $1.000 and 1Iot more than .$5,000, and render you ineligible for a period of 10 years for any further authod%a.tion for ~oluntary departure or relief ander sections 240A • .24S, 248. and 249 of the Immigration and

Nationality Act. .

U there is a bond outstaDding in your case, yoa are warned that, to expedite canc:dlatioa of the bead and return of the aillateral posted, you mUSt make advaDce arrangements with this OfrlCC to have: your departure witnessed by an Ofl"'lCtr' of this ServilZ.

Sincerely;

Signature of Authorizing Offic.ial

FO:R.lMMlGMnON A."il> NA~nON SERVICE tiSE ONLY

~ l'o:t :oa:= . 0 I-94mmpec! 0 r-530 =mil=1

".-;;a 0 DACSt.lpdza:t;!.

To

tI'

I

u.s. Department of J1l$Clce lmmi£r3tiOll and Naturalization Service

Notice QfIntent to Issnea ,Final Administrative Removal Order

) ~~~

."

In removal proceedings uDder section 138(b} oftbeImmigr.ation cd Natio~ty Act

File No: _

To: Complete nane of Alien - lAST N.4L'1E, First l~eme Middle Name and Alia.ses

Address; CexirDlets address of Alien at nresent (Rcme. Correctional Facili tv)

()Io=he:. Sr:cc::. O:r. S::a:.::....:! ZIP CooI.<) ,

. Telephon~: Coc;rplete Phone Nunber of Alien

(An,a Code _1'lIODC: Nalbcr)

Pumwlt to section 2SS(b) of the Immigration and. NatiO!!a.1ity Act (Act), 8 U.S.c. 122S(b). the Immigration and N~on Servi~ (Scviec) b2s det:rmmed that you are amenabl:: to expedited administrztive removal proceed.ings. 'l"he determination is based on me following allegations:

1. You are Dot a cirizm or n~ of the United States. , Country

2. You an a native of t:ry rd a citizen of ------.:=---.,...::-:::'::-=-r-,..:~~---

3. You =::red the United States (~J<~e:ar)f U.S. P<:>rt 0 ~~rys on or about oats of Eiitry

4. At that time you entered l-Iel..uv... 0 .Entry lIlto t •. .

5. You are not la~i;tted for ~anent residence. . • •

6. You We!"tlOIl Vl.ctlon Date • canvic:tcd in The I~11 namer. 1 offCcrtv.l.c~:l.on Court· Court

~ I.i~ o~ Court . ~ for th.t; oneDSe of rt.l.l._ 1 teo Agg. I; elony Orr tn violation of

Full aescnpt:l.on of sec..t:l.ot'l of la\; W/sec.tlOo n~ for which the tc:rm ofb:n;p:isonmcm imposed was

FUll ClCSc:nptl.on or sent.enc.e lm:posed by JlJCI.gS:

./

r'''~

re depon:able under section 237{a){2XAXiii) of the Act, , U.s.C. 1l!7(a)(2)(A)(lh,). as 3Z%1=nded. because you have bc=

.:ted aflD ~d felony IS definc~ in sec:ticm IOl{a)(4S) of the Aa. 8 U.S.C. llOl{aX43).· ,

Based upon .section 2S8(b) of the Act. the Service is servin: upon you tirls NOTICE OF lNT.ENT TO lSSUE A FINAL ADMINlSTR.-\nvE R,E.'\{OV Ai ORDER ~"Noti= of Intent") witIlom a heuing before an Immipatiou Judge.

vour Rj .. bt., anel Rt$pQnsibjlirjes; .

You rna; be represented (a.t.no expense to the United S'tlI.teS govem:ncm) by catm$el,. aUthorized to pi'actic::e mtbis proce:ding. If you wish lepl zdvice and cannot afford it. you may conrm::t legal counsel from me list of availal:de fr= legal services provicied to you.

You musrr:spond to the above charges in writi.tl.g to the Service address provided on the other side of this form. ~ 10 c:alc:ndl:r days of senice of this notice (or 13 ealendar days if serVice: is by mail). The Serviee must .BEC£lYE your 'response within that

tim~ period. '

_ . ., \

~L

.....

• '"It"" ....

:' ·Certificate of Service . ' '. " . l

Ihavl! determined that the person served' with this documcnt is .the individuaJ named Of;

ServinE Officer Date end Method. 'Of Service (i.e. p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e~~~, __ ,~_

(Sipm.IR =,c!:nde: aC Offi=l (l::larc 1114 Mac.acr af Scrri",,)

o I tlxpiaittedand/orserved.!his.Notice oflDlcnt ~o,tbe alien itt the 1 :uaQe u7ed to Serve f°P!kguage.

NlImc of Interpreter '1:'lill nane 0: lone. retor US~dl:t.",a ll.<:-t:l.t> e

LocationlEmployer Address of mteroretor and ernolover of :t:nter-oretor 1. e.USINS)

!served this Notice ofIntent. the other side of this form.

Sieaature and Tile of

\

AI" • ks thi ".:;, - I D.o Not WISh to,Contest or ReQuest Witl1holdiIUJ of: R$oval

zen cne.c.. s cox l..t ne CIOe5n t contest. 'Or request:. wrttit'i'OJ.al.ng.

o I admi~, the zUegz.tionsen~ char:= in this Noticc of Inttlllt. I admit that r am' d~poi-..ablc and a.cknoWledge ~ I :aro ~o~.~Hg~Jc for Illy form of r:1ieffromremom ~ waive my right to rebUt and contest the above charg~ a,n~ lTIyrigbt to 51e a peti~OIl:Jor review or the F!naI ~!Wn0vaJ ~der.c t donor wish to reqUest ''I"vitbholding or d~fenal ohetQ.oval.. I wish to be. remo.\"eC!. to

countr"nes) aH:~n ·.s~l.ec:. t..s rOI" rarnoval. ", .

r,If a:l1en"'''2Ilts to ",-a.iVe 14' day period, ,Alien,,J;ii~t check this box .. also.

L.;;.! l-elso waive the 14-day pCz:iCij:lfQr~e~on of the FinaJ.'~emovaI Order ". ,· . . .... ,' ..» .

Sienature of Alien Printed na.ile of Alien Date ahdrlf.:e Slim:d

~=or~ (l':i!IraS N'_of~=r) (tlaIcaT'c:)

Signature of 'W'itness to above hillted name or. Signatory Date and Ti. .. -e Sig~ed

I Ac.kilowlcdgethat I Have Rieeeived this Notice ofInteat to Issue a Final Atltninistrative Removal- Order ..

Signature of Alien Da.te and time Alien s" ~ed form

o Alien refrlsed to acknowl=dge receipt of this doc:ument· Cleek 1:x,)X if Alien refuses to sign form, Sigaature of Office-x:; Attesti:ng that alien" ref?ed Date and time of si~-:-Iature "

(Si~ md iid",arOEr.-} to ::i.:r.gn orm • (t)~tc !'ftd r-Im:' ,,'" .

I WISh to Contest and/or to Request Withholdfng or~emovaJ , < •

. ,; All.etl;c.ompletes .,ws .s~:t:itQn':

o I contest my depotubiliry because: (Altacill:nyr.ipportingac!:UJZIe1".ll:1iDn)'·.if. he .'Wishes . toeontest: .allegations

D" .. . ' . ' " or. fears persecution or··t-.srture

I am a ClIlzen Dr natIonal oftbe tJZlltcd Stztes. ' "AI'" . ."~"'" ''''.

o I am a lawful pc:nnanenx feSidcrltofthe United States. ". .J;en checks .ene box (if appl;Lcable

o I was notaonvic:-.ei:iofthttriinittal offense described in aIle!!2.tion :riumbt're:£b~test and one box . for reason.

o f am :ttW:hing ~C:t$ec'ts~ SuPport onDY.reb~ and r'eqJesr fer fur..b.erreview.. or

i1 ir:tlUI:$t'\v1thhOICfin .. ordeferraloIrem~t~-·· Country(i~) .' . 6.H:RRoffieap. to

." :. en one

o Und=r section 24 1 (b)(3) of the Act, bea::ause I fear persecution on aecolmt bf'lizy'i~l~xe~ pmicu.lar socia! group. or poliIic:a1 OpiirlOll in thzt country or those c:a:..:::mics.

1 Ui1c:!~ the Conventi~n AgainSt Tor::w:e, because t fear tQrmrcin mrcOllI1trY otmose COtmtrles, Signature of Alien' ,Printed name of Align .

e

Date and Ti."ile s.

J?.ETtTR.."'i 'IHis FORs.'\1 Td: tiDitod S~tC$ DepanmClnt of .Ju,stic:c Immigr;a.tion aDd Natu'rali::;atlon Service

If I"S51is mailed to a1ien~ note tp~ complete return

l~"""IO~' r-iame of 't)el::_ . 'son form is to be ~eturnedto •

..... ~ 01..10.1;' J. ~,.

I

'The Servic:= "rote a~ ·tb~ aho-ve address must Rtcrtvt yOUT' rU'poase "I'rithitilO ;:alcl1aar days from the d:lteorservil::e.l:)fth~ ~0ti= (of 13 c:alen4ar'4i1ys irs=rvice.is. by mail).

Form I-l!Sl (R-:v. S-19·)-

.' )

u.s. Department or Justice Immignstion and Naturalization Service

Notice of IntentfDecision to Reinstate Prior Order

File No. A Date:

Name:

In accordance with section 241 (a )(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (Act) and 8 CFR 241.8, you are hereby notified that the Attorney General intends to reinstate the order of deportation on entered against you, This intent is based on the following detenninations:

I _ You are an alien subject to a prior order of exclusion/deportation/removal entered on (Date} at (Place}.

2. You have been identified as an alien who:

I&l was removed on (Date) at (Place) pursuant to an order of exclusion/deportationlremoval .

o departed voluntarily on ::--..,.....- pursuant to an order of deportation I exclusion I removal on or (I).1te)

after the date on which such order took effect (i.e .. who self-deported).

In accordance with Section 241 (a)(5) of the Act, you are deport:able as an alien who has iUegaJIy reentered the United States after having been previously removed or departed voluntarily while under an order of exclusion, deportation or removal and are, therefore ~bject to deportation by reinstatement of the prior order. You may contest this determination by making a written or oral statement to an immigration officer. y~u do not have a right to a hearing before an immiJrationjudgc.

'"

),~ The facts that formed the pt:l$is of this determinolion, . and the existence of a right to make a written or o,.m statement contesting this

! determination. were communicated to the oliBn i17 the language.

(printed or typed name of official)

(Signature of ofiicer)

Acknowledgment and Response

I 0 do 0 do not wish to make a statement contesting thiS determiIiation.

.----_ ... _- - -. " - . ", -----

~--.--.-.-- ... -~--------

Having reviewed all available evidence, the administr:ative file, and any statements made or submitted in rebuttal. I have determined that the above-named alien is subject to removal through reinstatement of the prior order, in accordance with section 241 (aXS) of the Act.

u.s. Department or .Justiee

Immigration and Naturalization Service Notice of Intent/Decislon to Reinstate Prior Order

J ~ ..

FileNo. A Date;.

Name:

In accordance with section 241(a)(5) oftbe Immigration and Nationality Act (Act) and 8 CFR24I.8, you arebereby notified that the Attorney General intends to reinstate the order of deportation on entered against you. This intent is based on the fonowing

determinations: .

1. You are an alien subject to a prior order of exclusion/deportation/removal entered on (Patel at (Place).

2. You have been identified as an alien who:

I!I was removed on ll!!!!Il at (Pltll:~) pursuant to an order of exclusion/deportation/removal •

o departed ~luntarily on ~=---:--_--,-_PurSuant to an order of deportation I exclusion I remova! on or

(OllIe)

after the date on which stich order took effect (i.e., who se1f-deported).

In accordance with Section 241 (a)(5) of the Act, you are deportable as an alien who has illegally reenten:chne: United States after having been previously removed or departed voluntarily while under an order of exclusion, deportation or remoYal and are therefore subject to deportation by reinstatement of the prior order. You may contest this determination by making a written or oral statement

\to an immignslion officer. You do not have a right to a hearing before an immigration judge.

/ Thefocts malformed the basis ojthis determination, and the existence of a right to maks a written or oral SlDtemenl contesting this

determination, werecOI1Imtmicated to the alien in lhe language.

(Printed or typed IIlIIIJI: of official)

(Signlltlft of ofliccr)

Acknowledgment and Response I D do CI do not wish to make a statement contesting this determination.

Deeisron, Order, and Officer's C~rtification

Having reviewed all available evidence, the administrative rue and any statements made or submitted in rebuttal, I have determined that the above--namcd alien is subject to removal through reinstatement of the prior order, in accordance with section 241 (aXS) of theAc:t.

(IlaIt)

To: Offic:e of the Immigntion Jud~e

Exlll:CWive Office for Immigration Review Address of OD in DiStrict of Venue

From: Office of the District Director Immigration and NatuI&lizarion Service:

Adc:Iress of District Director in -

Q~ficg, of jurisdiction

Name of 'Alien - lAST NA"1E, First Name Middle Name

This is to notify you that this respondeat .is:

Cheek Applicable Box and Comple'te Conte?ts

o Cummly incarcer.ued by oth=r than INS. A clmrging document hasbe:n served on me: responclent anel an Immigration DctzinI:r-Notice of Action by the INS crorm 1·247) has bc:= filed with the: institution sho'W%l below. Helshe is incarcerated ar:

Complete name a1;1d address of facility where alien is incarcerated

"'

i

;lZm.tUly detamed by INS ar:

Earll.est possible release data from facility,

l.n raetil.ty recoras' '

Canplete name and address of 'INS Facility

as noted

rZWher anticipated relc2se ciat: is:

wnere ahen l.S a~talIIec

o Cur.t'I:Dtly detained by INS and mmsfmcd t..iis date to a Dew lcr..aUon: Canplete name and address of facility where alien to;2S transfe.."Tea

INS motion for c:bange or venue atz:ached. 0 Ve:s 0 No o Released from INS CUStOdy on the following condition(s):

o Pe:scmal Rccogni:::ance

o Order of Recognizance (Form 1-12OA)

o BonciintbeAmonmofS'

--------

OOmer ____

.If released fran custody J check applicable

reason .

o Surety botId 0 Cash bond

o Upon release from INS CUStody. the respcIlIdent was n-m;nded of the ~ c:omained in section 239(a)(1)(p=)(ii) of me Immigration ancl Natiomlity Act :md was provided with an EOIR change of address fOm!. (EOIR·33).

Signature of offic.er who notified of change of address require:nents Title of Officer

(SipalUll< lIIe L"iS afiiciaij

rinted name of above offic.er

eru I)f IbIS offiCal)

Duty .Station of above officer

/~. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~

:Fcmn 1-830 (R.cy. 411197)N ,

·'

C'l1ANGE OF AD'Q&ESS FQ~M

You Z't: requi.n:d to nowy th~ ~,;:~.#~= Office for L....,.,mi~on R:vie.<;:;' (EOIR) of any c:h3nge of aed."'CSS:ma tt:c:peoIle Ill!IllOe:''I\-Iz:;tin five C!l.ys ofmo~iz:g. You' will re::::!'re noc:i:ficarioo as to c.=:= o.""ne. d2I~ ar.c place of he""....r=~ or oche: official coue.spoccU:=ce l!I fu address provided 0:' YOI!. FalIu...-e to ~-ear at i.."!y h~~g before an L~..rior:.lw:tge. wne::I node: of tI:Ua: hea.ci:a.g or o&.~:official c:01!:3pcnae:lce was pe::lonally ~r .. ed on you or set to tile ¢dress you provide:£. may res-..ll~

iri one or more of tile following !.aioq.s: • ' ,

,

L !fyot:! are not aL-e.£dy de~ed. YOt:!. may be takQ irJ:I'.o c:us:ody by tile J?c'S a:r::tCf .held for fi:u"dle::ac::iol!.

2, :If yOf! sr~ ir:: depo!"'"..a!ioi.'! proc::e..;m.=s, you:;: be::!..:.:· .g ~i.y be held in ?ociabs:::!.c: mde:- Section 242(0) of1±e ri ..... i~OI::. End Nariocal;t:;..; Ac::,. C!!d m orde:: ofdepo.!.=:.lon may be e.:lte:ci ~..z you. rr.be:n::!ore you Z!:J.ay be #"'e1.igihl:::,ior tt;e iono .... ~J0?s of rellcf from ~or.dOI:!:

J

a.. Vc!::u!"..::.!"'."; c~ar-..:ue.es -;:;ro'Y"frfed for h S.ectio~ 24'uc) ofii:!: i=iCT"'::on md Nc:::iot'llIi:,:-

- ... - ..

Ac::,

O. Sll..~...sior. of de;-c;r-.ztic~ or volI.U:ta:y depi!.;.i.;.=, as p~..ced fer ii.'! Sedan 244 of tt!e

'f.. ~;~~on a:d·NciCti=~~ . .A-Ct; •

- .. .

".... ... ... ......... c:: • ","'.1-""",1- -1"1">..

c ... ~c.rt:-~~ o.f S:.:'~·s or er-?~i: OI 5:'="'j'j'!S as ?!v71ce:: ZQ1" l:! .. eoctl(sJ _:..;.~, -'~, or .;,.~~~ IX

tte T~t~~Cl: a:d N':iOi'!;i';~.; p-_c:...

)

a, :·~~lia:C!liJjr.r~ss!C!! to oe t!~edSaz.:s~·'be ~c ... ~· ".Zthc:.:.-s. .... ,.. and b. Y 0'= :'e:::::g z.:JJ!'",! be 1!:lc !I! .:-'om- .s..:..s.:::ac: Ed ~ c .. ,;C' af ::;;:6sio~ ar c2?O~OIl

,

Cll~~ of Address !rIs1::n:rdlons 'mmpt..:te W; Cb~~ 2f J.d~ fre=m bete)

, N cu: S<l4.:iu! Tr.ciii!Zt ir"'::;-.:.r:zicl".:i Ol'l"tM. i:K:ci: of rit.is form.

.~--------~---------~--------------~--

(PROVID£D 1'0 ALIEN wT!H l-t'T..A.

FOE.. AlIEN 10 COMPU:rE h"iD :eE:TiJR..~ TO INS) -: . A-File ~'tJmber

.-!.lim iLT~r: !Y':.t:::/".iJC'

Name of Alien

:Yi&r.e

Fotnler Canplete Address

Naw Complete Ad~ .... e.ss

Ci::J. :£:.t:;;r!. z:;: C~. or C:;W"'.:r:! if ::::i-.e:i-.r::z: ;;;.5.

In C.;r-cCi: Person w-no is orim.arv resident at new loc.ation

,J..f/?r.:;pr..a::4 ;u:r:r;r_ :f .;:::; .

Date t.r,at add,r...-ss change was effected New Tele:ohone Number(if Aot)licable)

o~ of.~"::::'::'·~ Cr..li:.r4'f:

. SignattL~ of Alien

, .';Ji:r,,-....:;.-:.r,rl:

(Back of form contains mailing i..""lStructions, inc.1.uding address

_ ...... ~ .... - .; t:" +~ 'he. m!:l.; 1~'

~e:z;:;.z -- ..... ~

Warrant for Arrest of Alien

it

--

File No. A-File Nt.mibet'

DIUC: Date of 'Issuance

To any officer of the Imtnigration and Naturalization Service delegated authority pursuant to section 287 of the Immigration and Nationality Act:

From evidence submitted to me, it appears thar.

. Cc-.molete Name of Alien ... "ith aliases !.AST N.4..~, First Name Middle Name

&'1 alien who enrereCi the United StateS at or near

Date of last Entry into' USis within the country in violation of the immigration 'laws and is f~)

merefore :iable to being taken into custody as authorized by sectiea 236 of the lmmigration and

Nationality Act.

/' \

I

By vinue of the authority Yested in me by the immigration laws of the United States and me :eg-Jlations issued pursuant thereto. r command you to take the above-named alien intO custody

for proceedings in accordance with the applicable provisions of the immigration laws and regulations.

Signature of Issuing Official

(Si~ of au:lJon= II>:S 0«'=1)

Printed Name of Issuing Offi-eial

i!'ri::lt=e"foflic:i:al}

Title of Issuing Official

)

. -~I {n_~ __ O!_O_~~ __ ~_'_.~~w.u~~~--. ~

(Si~ of tJft"i=rr ~ w-m:IIII)

Title of Above ServirIg Officer

1

I

i J i

i

I

; ,

:

1 i {

,

i

Certificate of Service

COmpleted qy Serving Officer

Served by me atAcidress where se-...ved on Date of Service at Ii."Z1e of Service. 1 certify mar followlng such service, the alien was advised cOI'l.cemmg;.his or her right to cOUllSel and was

fIlnIished a copy of this warrant; ' J

I •

File No: A-File Ntmber

Date:, Date Fo:r:m Completec

Pursuant to the authority contained h"1 section 236 of the Immigration and Nationality Act and part 236 of title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, I have determined that pending a final determination by the immigration judge in your case, and in the event you are ordered removed from the United States, until you are taken into custody for

removal, you shall be;, '

, Issuing Officer Checks One:

CJ detained in the custody of rhis Service.

o released under bond in the amount of $ . (minimUT) $1,500)

CJ released on your own recognizance.

Check One:

CJ You may request a review of this deterI:tlinatioD by an i:m.migration jui:ige~

CJ You may Dot request a review of this detennination by an immigration judge because the. Immigarion and Nationality Act prohibits your release from custody.

Signature of Issuing Offii;.!!r

Title of Issuing Officer

Location of Office of Issuing Officer (INS 0(= locaIian)

Alien Checks One:

CJ I do 0 do DOt request a redetermination

o I acknowledge receipt of this notification.

Signature of Alien

of this custody d~ision by an im.:migration judge.

Alien must check this ''box also.

,Date Alien'Si.,.ans Form (Da=)

RESULT OF CUSTODY REDE'TERL'\fiNATION

On Date of Re-deteI;.aIStOdy stams/conditions for release y.rere reconsidered by:

Check Applicable Box: .

o Immigration Judge 0 District Director 0 Board of Immigration Appeals

The results of the redeterm.inaticmlreconsideration are: '

Check applicable result: s

CJ No change - Original deT.eI'Illi:rlation upheld.

o Detain in cus'tOdy of this Service.

o Bond amount reset to

--------

o Release - Order of Reco~e

o Release - Personal Recognizance

O~r. __

Si2nature of Offic.er making Be-Determination 1Si'-" Df ~

Order of Release on Recognizance

.. '

File: No: A-File Number

Da: Date Foz:m CanEleted'

Name: _Comp~:..l_e_t_e_N_am_e_o_f_Ali_· en __ -_lAST __ ~_1E_','__Fl.....;· r....;s...;:t....;N:..::ame=~l'::.=:a=-=d::.::d=:le=--=Name-==-- _

Yau have be:tI arr-..sted z.nd placed in re:novaI proce:dings~ 'In accord2nee with s,eetion 236 of the !:rami:ration a:r.u:! Nationality Act aDd r.b: applica.l:lJc provisions of T'ttle 8 of7tbc: Code of Fedcn.! R.:..,"U.IzI:ions. you arc being rcleas:d OIl your own r~c

provided you c:O'It1ply with the: followin.!: conditions: Oleck all boxes that apply:

• 0 You must report: for any hc:a.ring or iml:rv:iew as directed by tl::!e Immigration and Na.nmaJiza.tion Scnicc or the Executive Office for Immipation Review.

o YOlllllUSt report in (wridng) (person) to

Name ,and title of officer alien is to report to

O"i&:= aIId Tad ... of c:- Otr=r)

.ax Complete address of office alien is to reoortm. Dav of week or month aI Time alien is

CLcca1ion or ~s Oft"u=) . alien ~ of&''~nJ,o to cf.ilPrt

Jfyou an allowed to n:pcrt in wriI:itIg. the.report J:!lllSt comain your m.::ae. alien registratiolllll.mlber. tulTeIU addn:ss, plac: of emplo)"mCDt. ancl adler pcrd:ocm information as r=quired by !be offiecr listed above.

o You must DOC c:ban.Ic your place of re:sid.ence without tim sCt:Uring wri-r.u:n permission from the: ofiic:r listed above.

o Yon must DOt viola: any loc:ai. Stat:. or Fc4crallaws or ordinances.

o Yon must assist rhc Immi~ and N~9n Service in obtaining any "necessary r.ravel doI:Imlcnts.

~-----------~--------------------------------------------------

NOnCE: Failure to comply with the conditions of this order may rc:sult in reyocation of your release and your arrest and detention by the Immi,."t'ation and Naturaliz:I.tion Service..

Signature of Issuing Officer

Printed Name and Title of Issuing Officer (P:iDraS Na=_ T=!c oCOfflCial)

Alien's Acknowledgement or Conc1itioas of R.elease on Recognizance

Strike out non-at>pl.icable choice '1 ed··

I llm:by adalowlct!ge mat I have: (r:a4) (had imcxpretca and cxplaincri to me in the anguage us to explnn ~~e)

aDd ~ the conditiom of my release as set fQnb in = order. I furtbcr lX%ld.cr.sl:and mat ifl do llCt comply with these conditiom. the Immigration and Nat:UraIizatic1i Service may revok: my release without .timber notic:..

Si;n.ature of Serving Officer

Signature ·of Alien.

Date Form Serr.red Cl)aIe:)

Cancellation of Order

Oleck AP"Olic.ab1e Box: ,

• C2%lCel this ord:r of ~case~: C The alien failed., 10 comply with the conditions of release.

e-. alien was r:ak=i imo tusICdy for removal. Signature of cancelling Official Date' Order Cancel~e

, CSlJA'lll,lrC of INS otlidal C:I=c:diD.c OIW} (.l)u:)

u.s. Dcpartmtmt or .J~

.Immig~Do1! allc! Naz:vr:aliz:al:ion Servk:=

Notice to Appear

t~ In removal proceedings under section 240 of the Immigration and' Nationality Act

~J . .

(CDV.ERED IN LESSON PI..AN)

rue No: __ -.:..;(1;;.::) _

In tile Mal= of: '

R.espotIdcm: <..;..2..;.)--------------- c:tzm:n1:1y residing at: (3)

o 1. You,are an arriv:mg alien.

. .

CJ 2. 'You ar= an alic:.n prescm in me United SImS who has not been admiacd or parolc:ii. ,

(5)

On th: basis of the rorc:oil:I&. it is charged timt you an: subj= to removal from t!l= UIlit:d StateS pursua:m to the foUowfn.g p:Ovision(s) of law:

(6)

, ,

hI . .. '

o thiS notice is bc:ing issued afte:' an asylum officer has fOUIld. that the re:spoml.cm has 4cmollS'tratl:d. a c:rcdl.'Dle: fear of p"'..!Zec:ution.

o sOOon 13S{b)(l; cm::l=r was vacated paISIWlt to: ~ s en 20S.3O(t){2) 0.8 CFR 23S.3(b)(S)(iv)

YOU ARE ORDERED to appear before an Immigrationjudg= of the.: United StateS Pepmmmt of Justice at:. _

(9) .

ou _

(CoII'Ip=~lIr~ Cctut. ~ Room N=-. if=y) .

at to show why you should not be r=Il:l'Vcd. from the Unit:d Srat:s based on tIlc:

s

(tlou) clw'ge(s} Set forth above:.

(10

--.\

ell)

.. ,-....:.........:.....--

(12)

(CiI;y - s:&I&) See ~ for important .information

Notice to Respoadent .(13) Warning: Arly statement you make ma), be.used· against:.yJ)~,in: ~oyal proceedingS.

.. .. '". .. .

Alien Registrati~n: This coPy ott¥' Nonecto A:p'pe~ served m;o!l yotriS evidc_ of your alien registration while you lIl'e under removal proceedings. You m reqwred to c::an:Y It Wlth you at all tmlcs.

Representation: If you so cboose. y'ou may be represemecl. in this proc:::ec!ing. at no e;cpense to the Gov~. by an attomev or other individual authOrized and qualified EO represc:nt, persons before the Executive Offiee for l.tciriitIa.i:ion Review. purSuant to S CPR 3.16. Unless vou so :request. no bea;ing will be scheduled earlier than ten days from the date of tills notice. to allow you sufficient time to se.."1l1'C·coU!lSei. A list of qualified attorneys aru:I organizations who may be available to reptcsent you at no cost will be

provided with this Notice. '

Conduct of ~he h~~ At.J:!le tiple of your he.arir1g,! you should .b~ wU:h..rou any affidavits or o'l:he;- doeume~ whicb yoq dcsire: to .have consIdered m c:o'micenon wlth your case. If any documem 1$ m a foreign lari.:,"uage:, you must brmg the: ongiDallUld a certified ~Iish lI'anslalion of the~. If you wish to have the teStimony of a."lY wil'.DesSes comidcred, you shou14 arrange to have such WltIlI$Se5 present at tile hearing.

At )lour hearing you will be given me oppommitY to admit or deny a:zzy or oUt of the allegations in the Notice to Appear md lhat vou m inadmissible or deportable on the eliarges contained 'in me Notice to Appear. You will have theopponunity (0 present eritfeiice or your own beb2lf. to cxzminc any evidence presented by the Govermnem.. to object, Oil proper le:sil: ftoUiiCi$i to the r=:ipi of evidcm:e imd to cross exmiine any wirnesses presented by the Government. At the conclusion of your b:irini. you 'have a right 10 appeal an

advetSl: decision by an immigr'1lDon judge. " ,"

rou ~ be .advjsi=d by the ~tionjud~e before w~myOJl app=r of any,nilict:from.~""al ,for whiCh you may appear eligible ~!!.. the.pmilege of dt:paning :volumanly, ' ,'You wDlbe glvm,a reasonable: opportunlty to:~sUi:h,an applicawll ED~ibI:!' ',~ mmu,."'Il1tlon JUdge.

Failure to appear: You m required to provide the INS. in writing. with your full mailing .address anti rcicpbone numoci.;'Yoo'must notifv the lD:inli!!:ratioll COl.ln immediately bv using Form EOIR·33 whenever you change your adciress or telephone m.r.mber durin ...

the cOurse of Ws l'Toeeeding. You will De provided with a copy of this form. Notices of bearing will be mailed 10 this addt-..ss. ff vcu do not subinit Form EOIR-33 and do not otberv.ise provide an address at which you may be reac:h=d during proee--..di:a!S. t.l-)en the Ciovermn:m sh.all not he re¢ed to provide- you with written notice of your hearin$. If you fail to attend the: 1ie3.ring at tile time and place clesignared on this nenee, or anv date and time later directed by the ImmigraUOll Court. a removal order mav be mad: bv the

nnmigrationjudge in your 2bsem:=. and you may be arrested .and d=tained by die INS. ••

Request for Prompt Hearing

'0 m>edite a detetmi.tlatioD in my case, I retniest all immediate bt:aring. J waive my right 10 bay: a lO-day period prior to appeJl%'ing \

JCfori an immigration judge. " I

(14)

ISi.- w rUle DC INS OirlC::,l

.D~e:, ~~ ~ __

• Certificate of Service

'This Noti= !O Appear was scrv:d on the respondent by me on {_1_5..,;) • in the following ~ and i:t '

compimc with scctioll239(a)(l)(l=) of the: Ac:t:

(16)

Oinpmon

o Aaadled is a list of organi%.atioIlS and attorneys which provide fro=: legal services. (1 i)

o Toe alien ;ru provided oral node= in the' (18) la:!gua:e of the ,time ~ p'hlee otilisor' h~r

'ariDg aIld cfthe =Dlleqw:nces of' failiIre to appear as provided in s:::tion240(b)(7) of the Aa.

(19)

(20)

Applicable Collti:aua.tion Page for Form FOl:m Nt.rnbel:

//W!::rJ.'S Name File N~ Date

OUt'S Complete Name - LAST NAME, First Name Middle Name A A-File N~ ~te .Fo:z:m Complete

1

Specifyarea(s) on form that are being continued.

)

I

Title

Title of officer completing form

Page '# Total :#

of thj ~ of of pages Pages

fom -us, GPO: t!!9:a-342...11.S3I7234S

;i~

-~ture of officer canp!etlng. form

loS. ~t oN'ustice

[mmi~1l IDd Naturalization Service

Warrent of RemovallDeportatioD.

- .... : ... ~.:: -se

"'-

',',.

I

File No. A-FUe Nt.mber

Dati!: Date of Issuance

To any officer of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Serri.ce:

Complete name of alien including aliases - LAST NAME, First Name Middle Name

who entered the United Swes at Port of Entl:)'

Date of entry

on __ =~= _

{l)aIc oi ....,.)

is subject to removal/deportarion from the United States. b.ased upon a .final order by:

Check: Appropriate .Box: "

D an immigration judge in exclusion. deportation, or removal proeeedi~

. 0 a district director or a district director's desigDated official:: .w

D me Board of Immigration Appeals

o a United StateS.DistriCI or Magistrate Court Judge

and pursuant to the following provisions of the Immi!I'2.tion and NatiOnalitY. Act: .

. . .

Section of law in which allen was found removable • .(I.e. S~tion 237(a)(1)(B» Include Section numbers and statutor:y law. wordil'lg, ~ on ~e NIA •.

I. the undersigned officer of the United States. by virme of the power and authority vested in the . Attorney General under the laws of the United StateS and ~y ~ or .her directio;n. c()mmanci you to take into custody and remove from the United Stares the above nained:a1ie~ putsuant to ·law.

attbe expense of: note what entity is paying for departure

-Signature of IssUing Official' (District Director) (S~ of INS offir:iaIJ

Distric tDirector

erlllc of INS offida.I)

Date, City and State of Issuance

-'I

_" To be completed by Service Officerexe:cur;ing the wammt: .

~:.Name: of alien being rc:mq~4: .

. Complete name of Allen - LAST NAME, First Name Middle Name

)

PoIt,date. and manner of removal: Port ,are alien' departs U.S., date and manner of departure

. ,

'RecEJ.'l t, IXtot-ograph of .Allen

Rolled

:Right Index F;i.Ilg~ri:r).t. Qf , " 1W.ien 'at time of Removal

::::<.'

Photograph of.alien ' . . rem.o.~ed

.Right index fingerprint of alien removed

Signature 'Of -Alien on Remow.l Date ($i.-o IIlr&li= 1rciD1 tiq~

i

.'

Siccnature.of Offi<:er eXecuting warrant (at time of Removal) ~ .a= cldlI' ot n."S afr,.;ia1'ci'tiD"riar)

'0

If aetu.a1 departUre is JlOt' wimessed. ..fully idemifv: sourcc'or.meaIlS' of verification of de~· Artieufa'te now 1.t 1.5 Ja'lOwrl-t.n.at aI1eIl1ieparteCI. U.!:S. l.t not-personalLY Wl.t.neSsed.

If self-removal (setf-deportarion). putswmt to 8 CFR24I. 7, check here. CJ

If alien. Self-removed (Left US on his o!.w'!\ prior to date of re.''llOwl) cheek box

eparmre Verified by: Signature of officer who verified de~ture of Alien

• ts.paIII:C -' IIIIC lie iiiIS o:&iii)

J

u.s.~orJasd= Immi,mi= aad NmnIiz.cilnr Scrvi=

Final Aaministrative Removal Order

.. '

F1NAL ADMINIST.RATIVE RE1\iOV AL ORDER UNDER SECTION 238(b) OF THE IMMIGR...oI\nON AND NATIONALITY ACT

f

File No: A-File Number

Date: Date Of Issuance

To: Carrolete Name of Alien - lAST NAME. First Name Middle Name and Aliases

Addn:ss:Complete U.S • .Address of ali-en at present (home, correctional facility, etc.) (N)mt:>c::. ~ "Il' ~'" andZlP code)

Tc:lephone:Comp1ete phone l'lImber of alien lNal~-""" __ )

ORDER

Based upon the alleganons set foith in the Notic: ofIntent to Issue a Final Administrative Removal Order and cv:i~ce contained in the administrative reeerd, I» the und:rsigned. Dcc.id.ini S=rvice Officer of the Immigration . anti Naturali:zation Service, make ~e following findings of fact 2nd conclusions of law. I find that you are not 3 citizen or national of the United Swes and that you were 110t lawfully admitted. for pc:rmanent residence. I further find. that you have a fuW conviction of an aggravated feiony as defined in section 101 (a)(43) of me Act,

i 6 U.S.C.llOl(aX43). and are ineligible for any relief from removal that the Attorney General may gr3min an

/ exe:rcise of discretion.. I fUrther find that the a.d.ministra.tive record established by clear, convincing. and unequiY"Ocal evidence rba1: you arc deponablc as an alien convicted of an aggravated felony pursuant to section 237(a)(2XA)(iii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1227{a)(2)(A)(iii). By the power and authority vested in. the Attomey G-~eral and in. me as the Attomey Gen=raI's delegate under the laws of the United States. I find you d~nable as charged and order that you be r~oved .:6:-om the United States to

Countrv alien is to be removed to or to any alternate country prescribed in section ~41 of the Act.

Signature of Issuing Official

(SipIDn:; or ~ 1h'S Oftiu) Title of Issuing Official

[Tille of c6:ia1)

Date~' City -and State of Issuance;

Pc:titiOD. for re'Vi~-: l:l Waived by respondent.

C Reserved by respondent.

Cheek if alien 'Waives/requests a petition for revi

Signature and Title of Se.rving Offic. ~adlitl:e or"f!Ioc:r}

Certific:;;t@ of Service

r served this FINAL ADMINISTR...&\.TIVE REMOV At ORDER upon the above named individual.

Date, time, office location, and manner that officer served 1-851.4. .(Le. Personal)

u.s. :Qepann:umt of JIlSf:ic:e

-: . Immigr:ation )Jld NaUlr:aliwian Sl:rvice

Warning to Alien Ordered Removed or DepOrted

Pile SCI: A-File Nunber

~. Date FOJ:m ~leted 'CI"'~ DatE)

Complete name of Alien - lAS! N.~:.rE, First Name Middle Name

Alien"s 1Wlname: __ ..;.:;:::;::..::...: ...... .........;.;..:,...;..:,.. -=- _

In aeeoraanee with the provisions of see1ion. 212(a)(9) of the lll:.mignticn and Nmoaaliry Act (Ac:t). you arc prohibited from entc:ring. att.."'lIlPUng to erucr. or being ill the Ut:iIcc:l Smt:.s: Check applicable h:lxt es )

~ For a period of 5 yws from. the date of yOU! departure from the UIlit:d Swes because you have been found iIladmissibl: unde:r section 212 of the Act and ordered :removed from tlle United SUIteS by an il:nmi:,"Tation judge in proceedings unckr section 240 of tlle Act.

o For a period of 10 )'eL"S from the date of your d:paTture fu:n:n the Un.~ Stm:s because you have been found:

o d¢ponab!e under section 237 of the Act and ord...-r:d :remov:c! from the United States by an imml:r.mOZl judge ill proc=din:s under section 240 of the Act.

o deportabJe under scction 241 of the Ac! and ordered d..-poned from the United States by an immi:;ration judge in proceedings c.:omm=nccd before April 1. 1997 UDder section 242 of the Act.

o depcm . .able under section 237 of the Act and ordered removed from the United StateS in accordance wirr. section 238 of the Act by an im.Iligraticn officer. a judge of a United S::au:s district cou."'t.. or a n:i3.;.eistrate of a United StateS mag:isttate COUl''t.

w For a period 0(20 yca:s from l:i::e ciat! of your c:!epanute from the U:aiteQ States be::.ause a.lter having b=n pr~yiously excluded. dcpor..:li. or removed from the t.iruu:c States. you have been fOWld:

CJ inad."lli.ssible Il%lder se~rioll III of w Act and. ordered removed ftcm. EM Uflited S~ by an immigmjOJ:! judge in procec.:dmgs

1ltlder section 240 of the Act. . .

\

)

/ ./

Cl dc.ponablc: 'W:Id:r sectio!l 237 of the Act and. ordered removed from tbe UIIiw1 States by an iInmigra:c.ion jwi&e in prlX:Ccti.ags

mu:I.u sQon 240 of the Act. . .

o tlejlOr-..ab!e under section 231 of th.= Act and orae."Cd reIne>ved from the Unircd States in proc::edings under section 138 of the Act.

.

CJ depcm"ab!e under section 14-1 of the: Act and orcercd deported from the 'Unircd States- by an ~tion.iud:ree in proa:::din:s c~ec! oefor: April 1. 1997 under s:::tion 242 of the Act.

o At any tiI::!e 'be:ause you have be-::l found inadlr.issible or e.'tClud:able ll!ld:r section2Il ofth: ACt. or depona.ble under.·se::tion 241 or 237 of the Act. a."ld. ordered depOrted or removed from the Unitcc: Sw:s, mi you have been convjc,:ted of a c:rime desimlated: as

an a:"."7:lIvated felony. . .-

After your rcmo .. "a! bas ben effe.c!ccl you IllUS! request and obtain permission from the AttOrney G::nmIl to reapply for admission u> the United SI'.iU&:S· a~ the: period inc!ic;a.:ccl. You Cl.!.St COtalI! sueh permission before commencing your uaveI [0 the United Sw:s. Applic.:atiOl2 fotmS for rc:questing permissioll to reapply for adlr.issicn may be obl:.ain:ci by c:onmc:ting any United States Consulate or office of the Ur.itcd SWCli l:!-JIligration and Naa.ua.!i%ation Service. R.:f=r!O the above file Dlm1bcr when rcquesan: forms c: information.

W.A.R!"1NG: Title 8 United Sw=s Code. Section 1316 provides that it.is a c:rime for .an alien Who has been removed from the United States to enter, attempt to el'.ltel". or be found in the U:Med States duri.ng the period m whlc:h be or she is barred from so doing Without the Attorney General's consent. Any alien who violatl!:S this section of Jaw is subject to prasecWon for a f=lony. Depending on the cira:u.ns-.anc:es of the removal, coll,iction co'l.l1d result in I S~iU:lc.:e of imprisonmem: for a

period of from 1 to 20 y~ and/or a (me of up to S:ZSO,OOO. .

lIre of Officer Se.....-v"ing Form

T,itle of jI.forenentioned Offic.er CT'lJ!: lIfo.t'ficer)

Office I..ocation

/

u.s. DepartmeDt or Jutice lmmignttion and Naturalization ScMce

Notice to AlieD Ordered RemovedlJ)eparture Verification

F'11~ No: _

Dat~; _

Alim'sFwINmn~ __ ' _

You have been found to be inadmissibl~ to the United States under the provisions of section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (Act) or deportable under the provisions of section 237 of the Act as a Visa Waiver Pilot Program violator. In accordance with th~ provisions of section 212(a)(9} of the Aet, you are prohibited from entering. attempting to enter, or being in the United States:

c for a period of 5 years from the date of your departure from the United Stares as a consequence of your having been found inadmissibJe as an arriving alien in proceedings under section 23S(b)(I) or 240 of the Act •

c fOT a period of 10 years from the date of YOW' departure from the United States as a consequence of your having been ordered removed in proceedings under any section of the Act other than section 23S(b)(l) or 240. or of your having been ordered excluded under section 236 of the Act in proceedings commenced prior to April I, 1991.

c for a period of20 years from the date of YOW' depart\lre from the'United States as a consequence of your having been found inadmissible and of yOW' having been previously excluclecl, deponed, or removed from the United States.

o at III)' time bccall5e in addition to having been found inadmissible, you have been convicted of a crime designated as an

aggravated felony.

After your deportation or mDOVal has been efflt'lCd, if you desire to reenter the United States within the period during which you are bamd, you must request and obtain pennission from the Attorney OenerailO reapply for admission into the United States. You must obtain such permission prior to commencing your travel to the United Stares. Application forms for requesting StICh permission may be obtained by contacting any United States Consulate or office oftbe United States immigration and Na1uraJizatio~, Service.

W ARNJNG: Title 8 United States Code, Seetion 1326 provides that it is 8 crime for an aJien who has been removed from the j United States to enter, attempt to eater. or be found ill the United states withollt the Attorney General's express consent. Any ,.lieD wbo violates this section of law is subject to p~CUtioll for a felony. DependiDg on the circu.mstances of the removal. coDVietiCm could result in a sentence of imprisonment for a period of from 1 to 20 years, and/or a fine of up to 5250,000.

(Tille of officI:r)

(I,..ocatioa orINS ofikt)

Verification ofRem.oval (c-pIIa Ibis scaiaI fat tiIc CIIP1 aaIr)

j:~--

J

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BUREAU OF IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT

(INSERT LOCAL OFFICE ADDRESS)

NOTICE OF INTENT TO DEPORT FOR VIOLATING THE TERMS OF YOUR ADMISSION UNDER SECTION 217 OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT

TO: (INSERT THE ALIEN'S NAME)

FILE No. _

(ADDRESS)

The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement bas determ.ined that y.Q\l ~ the United States pursuant to Section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality.Act. Acau:~,. you executed aFonnI-94W. Nonimmigrant Visa Waiver ArrivallDepartu.re F~ that ~tfJ you the conditions of admission under the Visa Waiver Program. When you signed the Form I- 94W, you also waived your right to contest deportability before an ~grationjudge and the Board of Immigration Appeals, and to any judicial review of any and all of the above decisions.

",

~ The Bureau ofImmigration and Customs Enforcement has determinedthat you have violated the : . terms of your admission under Section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality Act on the

: grounds that: .

(INSERT INFORMATION ABOUT THE VIOLATION AND THE RELATING DEPORTATION CHARGE IN THIS SECTION)

Accordingly. the Bureau ofImmigration and Customs Enforcement has entered an order that you

I . be deported and removed from the United States.

!

: Signature:

Title:

Date:

Location:

:LOCAL VERSIONS OF THIS NOTICE WILL VARY IN CONTENT

a:MPLEI'fD BY A!.lEN'S A!l'ORN:EY

'NOTICE OF ENTRY OF APPEARANCE AS A ITORNEY OR REPRESENTATIVE

In re:

DATE

Date Form. leted

:Omplete Name of Alien - US'! t1h'1E, First Name Middle

I here!:ly enter my Clppe=-cmc:e os attomey for '(or representcrtive of). end crt -rile rOQUest ei. the followin;

named person!s}: .

j Cl Pe;.lUo.1DU S ~J'''lt

CJ S .... _fid..,. CJSpecify requestQrs interes

(Cley) ($._> (%lP c:o.sc)

~AKE l'

Person· Who requested Atty!Rep.

AD:E)lU1!:$$ CApt. :110.) <N_ ..... S!ftc.)

Complete address of requestor

:NAM'E:

Comple te if more than one requestor

(%l:P Code)

Chec:.k applicable box( as) :

-,

01 I am an extromey enc C 1II_1lf in good stenr:lins of rhe her of tiut Supreme Court of the United States or of the

highut court of the fQ/lowing SUllie, territory, insulcr possession. or District of ColumDia

Name Court of bar member~hip CIIId em not und .. 0

tN __ .'CeIll"fJ

court or cdmini$trCll'h'e OJency Ordllf Sl.Isperu:ins, enjoining, restrcining, dis!u:rrinS, or otherwise

restricting lIIe in practicing I~w.

02- I em en QC:creaitec nptesenrCll'ive of the following nc:necf religious, d-aeritable. social service, or simiJor

ol'l!JCII'Ii.:cticm ~t=lished in tile Unit" Stcte, cmd which is ~ rec:9fti:ea by the Boord:

\ Name entity of representation

,

J

/ :J3- n2rne association

I am tlssoc:icted. with J

me Cll'tomey cf record who previo\l:;ly filed CI notice ofcpPeCII'CII'Ice in this c=$e and my c:ppecron~e is at .his

rec;uest. (If yD'tl cAl!c.t eM.s iU:m, ClSD clt.ed:. item 1 or S v:h.icM'rJtt'l" i$ t:."'~D'Prit:.te.)

04. On'nus CE.lCj)!Cl.in fully.)

.

SIGN.ATtjJlE ' c:.o&.IP.t.EI'E .II.l:lDUSS

Signature of Attorney or Representative Comple.te address of Attorney or Represent.

•

NAME (l"ype « Prim) ~J.«)NE 11o'"tidB;t

!E"iinted name of . Attorney or Representativ-e T< phone ~ 0 Attorney or Representative

1"rnutI.AN'Z' :ro"Z'BZl P,Rl'll'ACY Ac:T OF Dr". llIEREJIY C01Y::J:£N'r 'l"CI 7l'I.E m::sc::'OWJItE 70 nt2 FO:"Z.t:iJtrNCf NA1tf1I:l:I .... ~RN.E1" OR

JItEP~'rA 'll'Y:It OF AJf'Y IU!<:OJU) ,. E.R.T AlliL"ft;; 'l'O M'I: 7IIH1CH AJl'P.ItA..It$ IN .AN)' l:III!lIG'GR:.A.ll:OH A4Y» NA~ZAnc:w .s.E:R1'ICE

~ OF REt;;Q1CD$.:I

(N __ .. t At ....... 1: or ii: __ ._utJ .... )

THE ..c.sOYE COH$E."IT'l"CI DlSCJ.r:JSE IS l1i <:OH!iEcnCN lP.r7'B %'2fE FeUCWlN,O ~:z-r.ER: s

N..AM£. OF P.1U':SQH eOHSE.'V'1:1Ht;; ElClVA':tVRE. QF PE:Rsr:IN II:ONs:&.rn::NG I "An

i.:Irinted name of person cor.sS'1?-tirzg 1 Signature of person c.onsenting to Date of

"''Cresenta tion reoresentation ' silmatu.,..~

i l TE: E::::ec:ui.cl1. of Mis 00: is 1'e~ed. tmd.t:r t!'-e ·Prl:1Jl%r:g Act of 197.5, lDMt't ~t lU!t'sQn.kin.g f'epc:$I;r,utl

. ,~3 c citi.:zen of tAt: ·United Slt:tl!:S 0'1' im eken Zet.'71UZly a.dmuuc for ,:Jt:~ f'uwt!:1U:t:.) For.:. G-2S (RII'''I'.lO-25-7S1)N

(OVER)

~ .. '\I- .: '. ;~,-' , ',',', .,.,:~. '.;, - , "1.oi=i1l!lC~,,, '.;.'-A-~um~

p/'j' rete Name of Alien: ,rAsT'Iw£"fl.rst N~Middle 3-~:.--dfficel:A-File NlIilber

!)EcL.\.RAOON!)EL EXTRA.."(JERO

I' . La. sigueme infonniCio~ ~ r~q~iri:~~~jo eLc.bdi!Q,$ ~_.,s.C;. l:ZS;',Res~uestaSs~ran volunta.rias y para asegurar que dl.lr:tnt~ ~1.I.

,! dctcrlCii:ln tCiP.!a. opom.madil.d'"paradlSpollersc:: de la Slgl.l.cDte propledacL '

• T=ngo en los Estados ti:lidosyncren'pose.sion inmcpiata, los-bienes pCl'Sonalesq,uesc-<iesc:riben a c:onu:l-uaeicn: (Deu:lleequipe1e, • ;rurDmQviie.s. dinero tiepQsutzdol!'Ii·.bcrnc'os;.saiario.·o .nmu:s·,~,)e dep~ yroda orra dlUe debie1"'.I!,s • .sf niIlZ1..lItOJ. escrtba i ":VlNGUNOS".)

j D~

J

i

I

I

t

!

CDMPU:.lE lEIS PORTION IF AlIEN ONLY READS?ONDERSTM'DS SPM"ISd

El parienle 0 as:aigo que se nombra mas abujo .c:uid.inf de mi equipaje y bienes:

; :s-- ...... I''''''''''' I

i Db=:I:iQ'n

!

1 ~GmC':o dl! Tela-ono

i

.Lo que ~e ~rest=nt:l, tDd05 )05 bie,nc::s pt:tSOaWes qllc ,p05eo. en 10$ £stac!os Unldos 1 que: 110 e5l;ir. e.p mi ,posesion :nmc:di::n::..

) !c:ba en que fuefinnacla Firmll .... · . ..... ...:... _

, A.UE.~'S STATEMENT

r-~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~-----~----~-----

The: following infon:uluoa is required by S {I.S.C. 12S2. Response is yolunthr{a.nc wm b:: !!sed ;0 '::'..5ur: tn:lt ::ou art g~"0C::':\ :1.."1

opportUnity to dispOSlil of property li$ted wbile de:tai1ted.' . .'

i haw tht: followiftg·d~.:n'b.:ci personal pr.,~y in tbl= l!nit=d SCltes t.hat is not in my immedi:u: ~os£::.ssi&:ln: I L!Si r.d;;;:J,,".oo auzomobiiu. mont!.'nm d.epc;::it in banJa.::t:lary or that:: dut: )IOU. IZIUitlll orhi!!r.propfm.~·.lfno11i!. ",,"!'i:c -.vO,vE:!,

DI!:SI:ripUolf: Now in tlu! pOSSettslOIl qf: LOC!lIe,Vzt:

'-

! !

i Complete d~criptionof Property

I I

J

I ... ... . ..

I The relative Q~ friend :wncd below will care for tziy baggage ana propel"ty:

Name of person or entity who has imnediate po~sessio.n of .. property

Comclete address of loca tion of PJ:operty

' .. ~'

I ;';;lete """'" of person property entru.L;; .... CCmplete address of !><rsonj ;;;;=~'";' persor

The aboYe reprcserau aU of the personal prcpenl' owned by me in the 'United St:ues ex~t that in my immediate possession •.

",

·DRNrnA 96 CHARQ& COPES

. , j CODES FOR GROUNDS OF IN~MISSmILIlY FOR CASES AFTER APRIL 1, 1997

CODE SECTION OF INA ' DESCRIPTION

HAl 212(a)(1)(A)(i), Communicable disease of public health significance

HAl 212(a)(1)(A)(ii) Lades immupjzation against vaccine-preventable diseases named

by statute

IlA3 212(a)(1)(A)[rli) Physical or mental disorder 'with associated barmfu1 behavior

IlA4 212(a)(1)(A)(iv) . Drug abuser or drug addict .

I2Al 212(a)(2)(A)(i)(I) Crime involving moral turpitude (CIMT)

I2A2 212(a)(2)(A){i){lI) Controlled substance vjolation (Includes US or foreign laws)

I2B 212(a)(2)(B) MultipJe c:rim.irW conviCtions with aggregate sentence of 5 years

I2C 212(a){2)(C) Controlled substance trafficking

~

.' Prostitution or commercialiZed vice

I2D 212(a)(2)(D)

I2E 212(a)(2)(£) Asserted immunity froJ:;! prosecution " ...

, Espionag~ sabotage, or expon of sensitive technology or

I3A 212(a)(3)(A)

i.¢oqnation

I3Bl 212(a)(3)(B)(i)(I) Aliens who have engaged in: terrorist activit;y'

, , -

13B2 212(a)(3)(B)(i)(II) Aliens who are likely to e~age in terrorist activities upon

~admission te the US , ,

Aliens Who have incited terrorist activities , ..

I3B3 212(a)(3){B)(i)(lII)

I3B4 2 12(a)(3)(B)(i)(IV) Representative of terrorist organizations design:,ted ~

Department of Smte pursuant to section 219 niA ' .

I3BS 212(a)(3)(B)(i)(Y) , Members often-orist organizations designated by Depanment of

State pursuant to seetien 219 INA

DC 212(a){3)(C) Adverse foreign policy considerations

13D 212(a)(3)(D) Immigrant me~bership in totalitarian party

I3E 212{a)(3)(E) Nazi persecution or genocide ;

14 212(a)(4) Likely to become a public charge 1 .

"D~CRlPTION

CODE SECTION OF INA

ISA 212(a)(S)<~)'ih· ':

ISB ~12(a)(S)(B)

t-

ISC 212(a)(S)(C)

16A 212{a)(6)(A) Gt1lduate of noaaccredited medical school seeking to enter: the

, .. US to practice ~cine at;\d does not meet licensirig and 'English

'language requiieinents '

,

Any alien,seeldng adriliSsion to work as health care worker who,

',. does not meet certification and English language requirements i

, A.i,.y alien pre~em in the .uS "ithout beinga~tte4 01' parol~i:i or any alien aniv.ing in the US at a time ot,plac;e: no~' 4~jgna.ted by"

the AG " ." ,; . ", "'"",,

I6B

, 212(i)(6)(B)

. '. .

'AI~cms Vtno G.Ufn6t 8P,PearfQr'or're~ at removalproceedil:t&S::'i

'within the revioUs five '. eatS '

.,.. ' .. p .,,''''., '" 3'1.... _, ""..... ,,,j

I6Cl

16C2

...

212(a)(6)(C)(ii}z, False claims to US 'citizenShip

212{a)(6)(D)

2'12(a)(6)(E)

, 212(a)(6)(F)

212(a)(6)(0)

I7Al

160

;.,

. Alien smue!rlinE

• " - __ ' !*P .'

I6E

I Alien Subject of firllU, Order for ~.olation of274:C INA

I6F

Any alien classified as a nonimmigrant StUdent (F -J) Who '\oiolatcs a 1= oftb~t ~ 'qDdcr ~J4(l) INA

212(a)(7)(A)(i)a)" i:mmi'grant nqi UlpOssessionofvalld. unexpired visa., t:eentty

"' " ,pemUt, borocr Crossing eardanc1 a valid passPOrt or qther ~yel

:;",,:,;~"~~;;'" i::., .. ~do~c:nt ",' , ..... ,,.

. , ,.. - ~ .

ImmiErant.~i.th visa issued: without complUmcewith seetion2Q3'

INA - " . .. , ,"

. I7A2 21:l(a)C?')(A)(i)(II)

17BI. .. 2~2(a)(7)(B)(i)(I)

212(a)(7)(B(i)(ll)

"212(a)(S)(A}

Z12(a.){S)(B),

I No~gtant no~,in possession of~~n ~~id for at least 6 mon'ths beyoI1!i.~od .of~tial admission

11B2

,~.' ,

Nonjmnji~t not itt po$ses~ioJl of valid DQnimmigrant visa or

border cro$singeard"

" .

18A

",,' '"

Immijrallt Whois~ently ineligible' to. citi~enship

Anyone Who left the"USormyedoutside the USto:evade·' '''',::

UlJIling OrscM~m.f4~antie~" ~!C~~~$ a perlG~Aeclared:',':, by the president to be a national emergency

160

2

)

)

CODE SECTION OF INA

DESCRIPTION·

\ )

212(a)(9XC)(ii)

I9Al 212(a)(9){A)(i)

I9Cl

• .1

212(a)(9)( C)(i)

.,

..

A:Jly alien previously removed after being ord.ei-ed removed at the time of mivaI is inadmissible for 5 years (20 years if subsequent removal or aggravated felon) .

2I2(a)(9)(A)(uj

19A2

Ally alien previously removed after being ordered removed after proceedings initiated at a time other than the time of arrival or an alien 'Who departed the US while an order of removal was outStaIlding isin~dmjssible for 10 years (20 years if subsequent removal or a.gg:ra.vated felon)

I9Bl

212(a)(9)(BXi)

Any alien (other than LPR) who \VaS unlawfully present in.the·. US for more than 1 gO days but less than one year who voluntarily

departed the US is inadmissible for 3 years .

19B2

212{a)(9)(B)(h) .

19C2

.,

IlOA . 212(a)(lO}(A)

IlOB .. , 212(a)(U))(B)

: 212(a)(lO)(C) :

IlOC

~. 212(a)(10)(D)

nOD

. -. .21+<~)(16)(E)

nOE '<.'

~ .. ' '" ': ... ~ . Any alien (other than LPR) 'Who was unlawfully present in the :US for more than one. year who voluntarily departed the '{)S is

inadmissible for to years ..

: A:ny alien who has been unlawfully present in the US for an a:g.,strePtepcnod of more than one year and who enters or a.nempts to enter the US without being admi~ .

... 4.nyalien whc has been ordered !"emoved Under section 23S(b)(l) or section 240 INS, or. any other provision of law, Who enters or' attempts to enter the US .without being admitted

Immigrant coming to practice. polygamy

.~y ali~ ~~companying i helpless alicn

. . _ /uzy alien v.tiQ ~ Uill,-wIUny voted

. .., ~.' . ." . .". . .

..i\ny aii= yw'bo ij:nounced.US cinVmsblp to avoid. iaxation~by)pe :

.. 1;.1S "" ., .... . .. .'

~ ...

3

CODES FOR DEPORTABLE BECAUSE INADMISSIBLE AT T'IME OF EmRY FOR

, cAsES AFTER APRIL 1, 1997 . , ,

THE DEPORTATION CHARGE ISl57(a)(1)(A) -lNADMISSIB!JtAT TIME OF ENTRY

BASED 'ON,Ql'I:.E OF THE SECfIONS OF 212 INA

,. ~ \'

CODE SECTION OF INA ' 'DESCRIPTION

RltAl, 212(aXl)(A)(i) Communicable, disease of public health sigriifica.nce

RIIA2 i12(a)(I),(A)(ii) Lacks imrriuni.:t.a.tiC:m against vaccine-preventable diseases named

'by statute-

RlIA3 212(a)(1 )(A)(iii) Physical or.mental disordeI- with associated harmful 'behavior '

, , ,'" "\

Prug abuser-cr ,dnig 8ddiOt " ""

'RIIA~ 212( a)(1 )(A)(iv) , ,

RnA! 212(.,.)(2){A)(i)(l) ,,' .[ crimc'in~otVin' tilbral '~itude {CIMl)

, .' ",g " '", .. '... "

..

,RI2A2 212(a)(2)(A)(i)(II) .. ContrOlled St:ibstance viol.non ~udes US or foreign lawS)

.

RI2B 212(a)(2)(B) . MUltiple c:riniinal corivictions v.:ith aggregate sentence of 5 years

'. , .' .

ROC 212{a)(2)(C) " Controlled S1:lbstance ttaffieking

, ,

RI2D 212(a)(2)(D) Prostitution or commercialiied vice

RI2E, , , 212(a)(2)(E) , Asserted imm~ty.fromprosecuti.on

"

RlSA 212(a)(3)(Aj Espionage7 sabotage: or expon of sensitive technology,or

" information

AlienS who ~v~ eng~e~in Je,Erorist ac:rlyity '<

RDBI , 212(a)(3){B)(i)(I)' " ''';' .... , ... "",,, ' ...

, Aliens Who .. are likely to enPie in terrorist activ.iti~u.e9n """" ,"

Rl3B2 212(a)(3}(B)(i)(I!)

,adinission to the US ,-~ ~

, . . '. ,c'

"

ROB3 212(a)(3)(B)(i)(lII) ,Aliens who have incite(! ten'Otist activiti~ .

" ',~ I ' ,

. Rl3B4 212(a)(~)@)(i}(IV) Representative oftcrrotist OIgfWzations desipted by

Department of State pursuant to section 219 tNA

, , " '" ~-. .

RI3B5 212(a)(3)(B}(i)(V) Members ofterrorlst org~tions desipted by Department of

State pursuant to section 219 INA

ROC 212(a){3)(C) Adverse foreign policy consideratioDS

1U3D 212(a)(3)(O) Immigrant membersbip in totalitarian party

RDE 212(aX3)(E) Na:zi persecuti~n or genocide 4

)

\

) ,

CODE

DESCRIPTION

J

RISe

SECTION OF INA

RI4

212(aX4)

Likely to become a public charge

No approved Iebor certification

RlSA

212(a)(S)(A)

RI5B

. 212(a)(S)(B}

212(a)(S)(C)

. Graduate of nonaccredited medical school seeking to enter the US to practice medicine and does not meet licensing and English

language requirements .

Ap.y alien' seeking admission to work as health care worker who does net meet certification and EngliSh langUage reqUirements ;

RI6A

RI6B .. 212(a)(6)(B) ..

.. s

.. ·

RI6Cl. 212{a)(6)(C)(i). .•.

Rl6C2 · 212(aX6)(C)(ii}

') RI6D 212(a)(6)(D)

-,

RI6E: . 212(a)(6)(E)

RI6F 212(a)(6)(F) -

. .-

·RI6G · 212(a)(6)(G)

... .'

.. 212(a)(6)(A)

Any ali~n present in the VS Without being admitted or paroled or ; any 'alien arriving in the US at a time or place not designated by

tb.eAG '.

'AU:eas. who did not appear for or remain·at remQ~~ proc~ \\'ithin the pr,evious :five years .

I Stoviaways

Alien smuggling

Alie~ Su~ject affinal order for violation of274C INA

·Any·alien ctassified as a nonilnn:dirant Student (F-I) who violates:

.. ··2 tel'm ofth2t·~tuS under 214(1) INA . . - :

'" ,' .

Rl7AI

, .

i

'RI7~ -

. 212(a)(7)(A}(l)(I) .l~~l.no~.in possession of valid, ~ired ~ reentry ,

. . .permit, ~~r ,erQ~~ card a;nd a valid ~~O;- ~thCr traver.; . i

., ... . . . .. document ." . .... - .. ". _. '. ", ". ..,:

RI7Bl

,

212(a)(7)(B)(i)(I) Nonimrtl.igmnt not in possession ofpasspori validf6r:at least 0 ...

months beyond period of initi8.J. admissiotl' ..," .~. _ ' .

Rl7B2

212( a)(7)(B(i)(ll)

Nonimmigrant. not in possession of valid nonimmigrant visa or border crossing card .

RI8A

212{a)(8)(A)

ImmigI:mt who is permanently ineligible to citizenship

5

CODE

'-I.

RI8B

SECTION QF'INA'

212(a)(B)(B)

.... hyone who left the US or stayed oUtside the us ·to, evade ... tra.iDing or service in the aml~d forces durl:c.g a period declmd.by

, the J'tesideri.t~o be a na.tio:o.a:l emergency·· ,

RI9Al

(

212{a)(9)(A)(i)

Any alien previously removed mer being ordered removed at the ./ . ~ of amval iSi.tiadinissible for 5 years (20 years ifsubsequent .r:movaI 'or aggravated felon)

RI9Al

212(aJ(~)(A)(ii)

Arty alien previoUsly removed after being ord~d removed~r proceedings initiated at a time other than the time of irrlval or an ' ;wen who 4epaned tile Us.. while ariorder .of ~val was .' ou~ding is jDa"miSSib~e for 10 yem (20years'ifsubSeqUCnt '

removal or aggravated fc~n) j

21~a)(9){B)(i)

.. Any a1i~(o~~ Pit) woo was muaW5illypre$eDfm~ US

for ~e. than ISO clays bUt less than one year who volunta:r::Uy . .

departed' the US is inad.ri'iissible for.3 years

RI9B2'

'.

21~(a)(9){B)(Ii)

. Any aIie,n (other than LPR) who was unlaWfully present.in the Us for more than one year who voluntarily departed the US ,is inadmissible for 10 years

..

RIgel

212(a)t9)(C)(i)

lu:ry alien who has been unlawfully present in the US for an aggregate period of more than orteyear, and who enters or

attemptS to enter the us vvithout being admitted '

Rl9C2

2 12(a)(9)C)("u) , j

.,. , '.M." .. ·' , ..... ,

Any alien whohas been ordered removed under section 23S(b)(l)

er section 240 INS, or any other provision of law, who enters or

, attempts to ente:r the US vvith,Out~~,.~tted" ... _, "

RIIOA

.212(a)(lO){A)

,RIIOB'

212(a)(UJ)(B)

Any alien accompanying ~ helpless ~en.

IUIOC

Intemadonal child abductors

212(&)(10){C)

Aily'alien who has unl.wfilIly voted

. . "':'

,.-

Aily alien whO renounced US citizenship to avoid taXat!on by the tIS

.",.,

RIlOE .,,' 212(a)(l0XEl

)

i .

CODES FOR GROUNDS OF DEPORTATION FOR CASES AFr:ER APRiL 1,1997

j

CODE SECI'ION OF INA DESCRIPTION

R.IB 237(a)(1)(B) Any alien present in the US in violation oflaw

RICI 237(a)(1XC)(i) ·Nonimmigrant status violators

RIC2 237(a)(1)(C){ii) Violators of conditions of entry imposed under section 212(g)

INA

RiDl .. 237(a)(1 )(D)(i) . Tcmination of conditional permanent reside~t status i

RIE 237(a)(1)(E) '. Alien 'smuggling

~l,Gl . 237(aXIXG)(i) Alien considered ~ ha~e procured 3: ~ by :fraud if:mmiage

, ,

. entered in~o.less than ~years prior to admission is t=minated

• within 2 years after admission

,

, , . . ' .. , ,

RIGl : 237(a)(1)(G)(u) Alien fails or refuses to fulfill marital agreement

' .

R2Al , 237(a}(2)(~XD,~ .. .. C;on~cted. of 1 Cp..rr ~ommitted within 'S years of entry and 1

" year sen~nce may b~"lmposed

.. ... .. .' ,

R2A2. . :23.7(a)(2X~)(ii) Convicted of~ or.more'CIMTs :

" ..

R2.A3 - ~7(a~)(A)(ii1) .. C~cted of an ~vated felony ,

. ' .

R2A4 . , 237{a)(2)(A)(iv) Convic;l:eCi ~fVi~latiQI,l of 18 {,.TSC7S8 (high ~d tligi+t tcavoid

, '. .. ' " immigration ~eck.P9~) .

R2Bl 431.{a)(2)(B)ol Convicted Qf cOl\troll~ substance violation ,

Pn'i8 abus~ror:addic~ . ,':' -

R2B~ ~7(a){2~)(ii) ,

.' " ~

. ' s

R2C .~7(a)(1XC) ". ' .. ," ConVi~'qf~' 'Q!I:ense

"

.R2Dl , . 2S7(.)O)(P)(i) , :. COnvic:tecl pi eSPiOriag~ tt.eason, or sedition ..

R2D2 237(a){2)(D)(ii) Convicted of 18 USC 871 or 960

R2D3 237(a)(2)(D)(iii) Convicted of violation of .Military Selective Service Act or

Trading with the Enemy Act

R2D4 237(a){2)CP)(iv) Convicted of violation of section 215 or 27&·INA

R2El 237(a)(2)(E)(i) Convicted of domestic violence, stalking. child abuse, child

neglect or child abandonment:

R2E2 237(a)(2)(E)[ri) . Violation of protection order I ./

/

7 ,.

CODE

DESCRIPTION

.... "" .

)

R3A

SECTION: OF INA

, .. , . ..,; ,-. ., ~ " " ....

",.-," Change of address violation

R3Bl

237(a)(S){BXi)

• Convieted of section 266( c) INA or seCtion 36(e) of the Alien

",- Registtation Act of 1940 ' , '

R3B2

237(a)(3)~)(ii)

''''"

Convicted. ofForcign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (2~ USC

611) ,

R3B3

Convicted of fraud, misuse of visas, permits'and other en'lly documents (18 USC .1546)

DC

,

Alien sUbjectto:final orderforviol~on!~sec~~;274C INk, .

R4Al

"~aged}n eSpio. ~~-'Drviolation'-of~~prc:>hibitillg

export 'of goods. tecbnology or s~1ive iDfomW:iou' '" .

. , , ...... ' .' - ~, , ..' .

. :R.4A.2

.237(a.)(4)(A)(u) ' .

. -

. . :EnPsed in criminal activity ~ilich endangerS.Piibli~ ~.~., . national security

R.4A3

237{a)( 4)(A)(Iii)

Activity for QppDsiJion to control or ovetthrow of tJle US: govemm~ by forcel' violence· or other t.mlawful:means

lt4B

Terrorist activity

,237(a)(4)(B) :

•

R.4C.

231(a)(4)(C)

'"

An alien's presence or activities in the US woUld have serious

·advme:forcip policy conse~for the US'

R4D'

, Nazi persecution or genoc:iOC'

237(a){4)(D)

237(aXS) .,

Public charge within S yeats of admission

. '. " "' " .

·Ro

237{a){6) .'

J

I

Leave a Comment

Comment must not be empty.
You must be logged in to leave a comment.

Submit
Characters: ...

Comment must not be empty.
You must be logged in to leave a comment.

Submit
Characters: ...

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Download or Print

2,402 Reads

Info and Rating

Category: Government Docs
Rating:

Upload Date: 11/01/2009
Copyright: Attribution Non-commercial
Tags:

ice
immigration
FOIA
dhs
immigration and customs enforcement
department of homeland security
( more tags )

ice
immigration
FOIA
dhs
immigration and customs enforcement
department of homeland security
287g
287(g)
immigration enforcement
( fewer )
Flag document for inapproriate content

This is a private document.

Uploaded by
J Cox

Follow

Download

Embed Doc

Copy Link

Add To Collection

Comments

Readcast

Share

×

Tweet

Share on Scribd:
Readcast

Search
TIP Press Ctrl-F ⌘F to quickly search anywhere in the document.

Search
Search History:

Searching...

Result 00 of 00
00 results for result for

p.

More from This User

Related Documents

More From This User

1 p.
Letter from Mississippi Law Enforcement re Anti-Immigrant Bill (3/2...

2 p.
Letter from Mississippi Business Groups re Anti-Immigrant Bill (3/2...

1 p.
Letter from Mississippi Economic Council re Anti-Immigrant Bill (3/...

3 p.
ICE Policy re Facilitating the Return to the U.S. of Certain Lawful...

10 p.
DOJ OLC Memo re Handling of INS Warrants of Deportation in Relation...

3 p.
Eleventh Circuit enjoins Sections 27 & 30 of Alabama's HB56 pending...

3 p.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement - Detainer Form (October 2011)
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76323894 for the June 2011 version of this form.

3 p.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement - Detainer Form (June 2011)
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76323899 for the October 2011 version of this f...

7 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Purchasing Dep't re HB5...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Tax Collector re HB56 (...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Water Dep't re HB56 (10...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Waste Control & Recycli...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Public Works re HB56 (1...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Probate Judge re HB56 (...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to License Director re HB5...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Building Inspection re ...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

6 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to Animal Control re HB56 ...
See http://www.scribd.com/doc/76269767 for a more recent memo that affects th...

5 p.
Madison County (Alabama) Attorney - Memo to County Departments Re H...

1 p.
Alabama League of Municipalities - Letter re Section 30 of HB 56 (1...

1 p.
Alabama Dep't of Revenue - Memo re Temporary Restraining Order (11/...

1 p.
Alabama Dep't of Revenue - Memo re Section 30 of HB56 (12/1/11)

2 p.
Alabama Dep't of Revenue - Memo re Revised HB56 Guidance (12/20/11)

1 p.
Alabama Dep't of Revenue - Memo re Preliminary Injunction (12/13/11)

3 p.
Alabama Dep't of Revenue - Memo re HB56 Guidance (9/29/11)

1 p.
Alabama Dep't of Revenue - Memo re Extension of Time for Mobile Hom...

Related Docuements

117 p.
Parents... Your HS Teens have been replaced by Aliens!
Parents, if you really want to know how those years of talking, begging, and ...
From Trafford

24 p.
Dream 2011 Language
From United We Dream

19 p.
S. 729 - Introduced-in-Senate - United States Congress via MyGov365...
A bill to amend the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility A...
From MyGov365

26 p.
S. 3992
From aughra hernandez

227 p.
The Alien Invasion Survival Handbook
Aliens are among us, and it’s your right – your civic responsibility – ...
From FW Media, Inc.

20 p.
S. 3827 - Placed-on-Calendar-Senate - United States Congress via My...
A bill to amend the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility A...
From MyGov365

33 p.
Mfr Nara- t5- Dos- Visa Briefing- 6-3-03- 01047
From 911DocumentArchive

9 p.
AlienGenerator
From Learz

9 p.
Alien Generator
From Paul Woodfall

17 p.
H.R. 6327 - Introduced-in-House - United States Congress via MyGov3...
To authorize the cancellation of removal and adjustment of status of certain ...
From MyGov365

4 p.
Ben 10 Ultimate Alien Disc Alien Ultimatrix Reviews
From earlmarquez

18 p.
H.R. 1932 - Reported-in-House - United States Congress via MyGov365...
To amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to provide for extensions of det...
From MyGov365

20 p.
S. 3963 - Placed-on-Calendar-Senate - United States Congress via My...
A bill to authorize the cancellation of removal and adjustment of status of c...
From MyGov365

6 p.
H.R. 6062 - Introduced-in-House - United States Congress via MyGov3...
To identify and remove criminal aliens incarcerated in correctional facilitie...
From MyGov365

3 p.
bahoi2
From Florin Silviu

1 p.
Poem 3
From jycool10

Use your Facebook login and see what your friends are reading and sharing.

Other login options Login with Facebook

Signup
I don't have a Facebook account

email address (required)

create username (required)

password (required)

Send me the Scribd Newsletter, and occasional account related communications.

Sign Up
Privacy policy

You will receive email notifications regarding your account activity. You can manage these notifications in your account settings.
We promise to respect your privacy.

Why Sign up?

1. Discover and Connect

With people of similar interests

2. Publish Your Documents

Quickly and easily

3. Share Your Reading Interest

On Scribd and social sites like Facebook and Twitter

Already have a Scribd account?

email address or username

password

Log In

Trouble logging in?

Login Successful
Now bringing you back...

Reset Your Password

« Back to Login

Please enter your email address below to reset your password. We will send you an email with instructions on how to continue.

Email Address:

You need to provide a login for this account as well.

Login

Submit

Upload a Document

Search Documents

Follow Us!
scribd.com/scribd
twitter.com/scribd
facebook.com/scribd
About
Press
Blog
Partners
Scribd 101
Web Stuff
Support
FAQ
Developers / API
Jobs
Terms
Copyright
Privacy

Copyright © 2012 Scribd Inc.
Language:

Choose the language in which you want to experience Scribd:
English
Español
Português

