

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Statutory Authority | PDF

Skip to main content

Open navigation menu

Close suggestions Search
Search

en Change Language , English

Upload

Sign in

Sign in

0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 16 views 55 pages

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Statutory Authority

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Uploaded by J Cox

AI-enhanced title

Copyright
© Public Domain
We take content rights seriously. If you suspect this is your content, claim it here .

Available Formats
Download as PDF or read online on Scribd

Download

Save Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Statutory Author... For Later

Share

0% 0% found this document useful, Mark this document as useful

0% 0% found this document not useful, Mark this document as not useful

Print

Embed

Report

0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 16 views 55 pages

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Statutory Authority

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Uploaded by J Cox

AI-enhanced title

Copyright
© Public Domain
We take content rights seriously. If you suspect this is your content, claim it here .

Available Formats
Download as PDF or read online on Scribd

Go to previous items

Download

Save Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Statutory Author... For Later

Share

0% 0% found this document useful, Mark this document as useful

0% 0% found this document not useful, Mark this document as not useful

Print

Embed

Report
Go to next items

Download

Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Statutory Author... For Later

Share

More options

Fullscreen
Lesson Plan Overview

Course

‘STATUTORY AUTHORITY

"Course Description

‘Federal law enforcement officers can only act by virtue of legal
authority. This course provides an overview of laws that grant federal
law enforcement officers authority to take appropriate action to enforce
the Immigration and Nationality Act (“INA”).

Field Performance Objective | To be able to take appropriate actions and justify those actions by

referencing applicable authority when given hypothetical field
situations where the INA must be enforced.

Tnterim (Training) 1. Define the term “immigration officer.”
Performance Objectives | 2. Identify the elements of en administrative removal.
3, Identify the sources from which immigration law is derived.
4, Identify the types of authorities granted to immigration officers and
their basis in law.
5. Identify the principal levels of encounter.
6. ‘Wdentify the policy regarding use of deadly force.
Tnstructional Methods TLeotare, las discussion
‘Time 4 Hours.
Training Aids PowerPoint.
Method of Evaluation | Multiple-choive examination.
WORKBOOK: Statu ori

TCE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
INA Section:

235(a)(1)
235(a)2)
235(a)3)
235(a)(5)
235(b)(2)

235(@(1)
235(4)(2)
235())
235(@)(4)
252(b)
287(a)(1)
287(a)(2)
287(@)(3)

, 287(@)(4)
287(a\(5)
28700)
287(c)

287(¢)

- ~, Statutory Authority

Definition of “applicant for admission”

Removal of stowaways by immigration officer upon inspection

Inspection of all applicants for admission by immigration officers

Statement under oath by applicant for admission concerning his admissibility
Detain alien for INA § 240 removal proceedings

Board and search any vessel, aircraft, railway car, or conveyance at a port-of-entry (POE)
Order detention and delivery of arriving aliens

‘Take oath and consider evidence from any person concerning the privilege

of any alien to enter, re-enter, transit, or reside in the United States (U.S.)

Subpoena attendance and testimony of witnesses, evidence, etc.

Revoke previously issued conditional permit to land

Interrogate any alien without a warrant as to his right to be or remain in the U.S,
Administrative arrest of alien without warrant for violation of immigration laws
Board and search for aliens within reasonable distance from bordet/enter onto
private property within 25 miles from the U.S. border

Criminal arrest without warrant for any felony under Legacy INS jurisdiction
Arrest for felony under U.S. law

‘Take oath and consider evidence from any person concerning the privilege

of any person to enter, re-enter, transit, or reside in the U.S.; criminal penalty for pexjury
Search person and personel effects of applicant for admission at POE.

for evidence of inadmissibility

Prohibition to enter onto farms or outdoor agricultural operations without
consent/warrant

‘Note: The discussion of the various sources of statutory authority in this workbook is not
all-inclusive, For example, ICE Special Agents and Border Patrol both derive authorities
from Title 19 of the United States Code, that are different and in many ways more
expansive than the authorities that were formerly available for use by Legacy INS under
Title 8 of the United States Code. Creating the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
and consolidating the duties and responsibilities of Legacy Customs and Legacy INS
yielded “One Face Along the Border.” Similarly, Legacy Customs officers also derived
authorities from Title 8 of the United States Code that were formerly unavailable to them.
‘There is now have a cadre of law enforcement officers along the borders and in the
interior of the U.S. who can look to multiple sources of authority to enforce the laws of the
Us.

/ WORKBOOK: Statutory Auth ty
TCE ACADEMY 2

Fall, 2007
1. Definition of Officer

More than one section of the Immigration and Nationality Act (“INA”)
sgzants authority to employees of DHS who have been designated as
‘immigration officers.” Recognize that Customs and Border Protection
(*CBP”) and Citizenship and Immigration Services (“CIS”) both have
personnel that are also “immigration officers” by definition.

[Alny emplayee or class of employees of the Service or of the
United States designated by the Attorney General, individually or by
regulation, toperform the factions ofan immigration officer
specified by Act or any section thereof.

, director of field operations, or officer-in-

charge who will specify to each officer the nature of the job.

While there any
number of persons
[Including senior or supervisory officers of the below listed who can rightfully
employees] claim to be an
Immigration officer, immigration inspector, immigration examiner, __“amigration officer”
adjudications officer, Border Patrol agent, aircraft pilot, airplane Dy virtue of the
pilot, helicopter pilot, deportation officer, detention enforcement Position they hold, it
officer, detention officer, investigator, special agent, investigative almost goes without
assistant, immigration enforcement agent, intelligence officer, saying that this in no
intelligence agent, general attorney (except with respect to CBP, ‘way translates into
only to the extent that the attorney is performing any immigration ‘them having the exact
Sunction), applications adjudicator, contact representative, ‘same inventory of
legalization adjudicator, legalization officer, legalization assistant, . powers and authorities
forensic document analyst, fingerprint specialist, immigration to act,
information officer, immigration agent (investigations), asylum
officer, other officer or employee of the Department of Homeland [See, 8 CFR § 287.5
Security or of the United States as designated by the Secretary of which discusses the
Homeland Sé[Link] provided in § 2.1 of this chapter. Any exercise of power by
customs officer, as defined in 19 CFR 2416, is hereby ‘immigration officers.]

authorized to exercise the powers and duties of an immigration
officer as specified by the Act and this chapter. [emphasis added]

WORKBOOK; Statutory Authority .
ICE ACADEMY 3

Fall, 2007
IL _INA§240 Removal Proceedin;

1

Because much of the authority to be discussed involves the
administrative removal of unauthorized aliens, itis important to know
what a removal is, the purpose and fumetion of an INA § 240 removal
proceeding, and the personnel involved in the removal process.

On September 30, 1996, President Clinton signed the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996
(IRIRA”), which is one of the most extensive amendments to the INA
since 1952,

Prior to the enactment of IIRIRA, there were separate proceedings
dealing with either “exclusion” or “ ion.” TIRIRA created a
single proceeding known as a removal proceeding. In a removal
proceeding, an alien can either be charged with a ground of
inadmissibility under INA § 212(a) or a ground of deportability
under INA § 237(a). This proceeding determines whether an alien may
bbe admitted to the U.S., or if the alien has already been admitted,
whether he can be removed from the U.S.

An alien can be charged as inadmissible if he has never been admitted
to the U.S. and/or a ground exists for denying entry at the time of the
alien’s application for admission.

‘An alien can be charged as deportable if he has been lawfully admitted
to the U.S., but after admission, subsequently violates a condition of
his lawful status.

‘The removal hearing is an administrative proceeding, which is
presided over by an immigration judge (“LI”). The alien is referred to as
the “respondent” in an INA § 240 Removal Proceeding

Burden of Proof in Immigration Court

a. Ian alien appearing in immigration court has been admitted to the
US, the alien is being charged as being deportable. The
‘Government has the burden of proof to prove by clear and
convincing evidence that the alien is deportable as charged.

’, In the case of an alien appearing in immigration court who is an

ICE trial attomeys are
very pleased to find
‘complete and accurate
1-213?s as well as
certified conviction
records in A-files. It
makes the job of
proving the case

J Statutory Autho!
TCE SREY a 4

Fall, 2007
m1.

applicant for admission at a POE, ot who has been found present in
the U.S, without inspection, the Government must first prove
alienage; then the burden of proof shifts to the alien who must then
‘prove clearly and beyond a doubt that he or she is entitled to be
admitted to the U.S. or is otherwise lawfully present in the U.S.

Personnel Involved with an INA § 240 Removal Proceeding
1, 8 CER § 1.1() defines the term “immigration judge” as:

[aJn attorney whom the Attorney General appoints as an administrative
judge within the Executive Office for Immigration Review, qualified to
conduct specified classes of proceedings, including a hearing under
section 240 of the Act. An immigration judge shall be subject to such
supervision and shall perform such duties as the Attorney General shall
prescribe, but shall not be employed by the Intmigration and
Naturalization Service. .

‘a, The IT works for the Executive Office for Immigration Review
CEOIR’), which is a part of the U.S. Department of Justice. The
Ty exercises powers and duties in immigration procéedings and
such other proceedings that the Attorney General assigns to the IJ
to conduct. [See, 8 CFR §1003.10]

1b, The IJ is the presiding and deciding official in all removal...
‘proceedings conducted under INA § 240.

¢. Immigration judge makes only administrative decisions.
Because the IJ is not involved in criminal proceedings, the II
cannot and does not impose penalties of incarceration for aliens.
However, the IJ can review ICE’s decision to hold an alien in

detention, and make decisions conceming an alien’s bond. An

can lower, raise, revoke, or leave a bond the same as a-result of
conducting a bond redetermination heating for an alien. An II's
authority to redetermine bond is contained in 8 CFR §1003.19,
4, An's responsibilities and duties during an INA § 240 removal
. proceeding may include:
tutor rit

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007

against the alien much
easier.

Not all immigration
judges take the bench
‘with an extensive
background and
knowledge of
‘immigration law and
procedure. If called as
a witness in a removal
proceeding make sure
you know your judge’s
level of expertise and
tty to avoid rattling off
forma numbers and
other acronyms
without further
explanation.
1, determining the removablity and/or availability of relief to
the respondent(s);

2. administering oaths;

3. receiving evidence including prior (oral or written)
statements;

4, questioning and examining the respondent and/or
witnesses;

5, subpoenaing witnesses and evidence;

6. reviewing all available evidence taken into the record.

@. The I's decision will include a finding as to inadmissibility or Appendix A to this
deportability and reasons for denying or granting any request or workbook contains a
application for discretionary relief from removal made bythe _flow chart that shows
alien. the path of an alien’s

immigration case
£. The IJ can certify a decision or an issue to the Board of through the EOIR
Immigration Appeals (BIA) when a case involves a complex or system.
‘unusual issue.
Appendix B to this
g When an IJ issues an order in immigration court, both sides (the workbook is an EOIR
Government and the alien) are given the opportunity to accept fact sheet that
‘the decision or reserve the right to file an eppeal. Ifboth sides discusses the removal
) ‘waive appeal and accept the I's order, the order becomes final hearing process.

and the case is complete. If appeal is reserved by one party or by
‘both, the appealing party has thirty(30) days from issuance of Appendix C to this
the L)’s order to file a Notice of Appeal (“NOA”) with the BIA. —_ workbook is an EOIR

fact sheet that
1h. The BIA inpst receive the NOA within the 30-day period in discusses the topic of
~{6 be authorized to review the decision made bythe IJ. Until the "relief from removal.
males, decision
grat ‘A published Board
2. Board of Immigration Appeals (“BIA”) pale Bou
a. The BIA isa pat ofthe EOIR, and thus is also apart ofthe U.S. eet ewe tia bee
Department of Justice. General for review ~ unless
adn modified cr
b. The BIA reviews appeals from the II's decisions in INA §240 overruled by the Atiomey
‘removal proceedings or the immigration judges’ requests for General, the Board, 7
certification. Issues addressed by the BIA include custody ee eee t
redetermination, inadmissibility, deportability and relief from #23 J&N Deo 814 (BIA
removal. 2005)]
_ WORKBOOK: Statutory Authority
ICE ACADEMY 6

Fall, 2007
©. Notall of the BIA’s decisions are published to the public. Only
the published BIA appellate administrative decisions are binding
on aliens and DHS agencies responsible for enforcing
immigration laws nationwide,

d. The BIA’s published decisions are binding on aliens and on all
DHS officers and Us unless modified or overruled by the
Attorney General or a Federal court,

3. Government Counsel
Most field offices
a. “Trial” or “general” attorneys in field offices under the ICE within the OPLA will
Office of the Principal Legal Advisor [OPLA} are known as have a “duty attorney,”
“assistant chief counsels.” Their primary duty is t'advocate on someone who is
behalf of the United States in immigration court and before the —_responsible for
BIA. They also provide critical support to the US. Attomey fielding calls and

Offices on matters related to immigration law. providing legal advice
and assistance to
b. Assistant chief counsels’ duties in an INA § 240 removal immigration officers
proceeding may include: in the field. Get their
phone numiber and
1. representing the Department of Homeland Security's keep it handy.
position;

2. presenting evidence;

3. conducting examinations of respondents and witnesses;

4, analyzing all of the evidence in light of current legal
authority.

c. Assistant chief counsels dan appeal the II’s decisions to the
BIA. In doing so they are responsible for drafting and timely
filing the NOA and any appellate briefs.

IV. Introduction to Authority

Authority is defined as “the right, permission, or power to act legally that
comes from a specific source.” [See, Black's Law Dictionary (7th ed. 1999)]

Immigration Officers must be familiar with the various sources of authority
to perform their respective duties, It is extremely inaportant that officers
mow the limits of theit powers and stay within those limits,

WORKBOOK: Statutory Authority .
ICE ACADEMY u
Fall, 2007
~

1, Sources of Authority

Intemational Law

1

2.

Each sovercign state, including the U.S., has the right to
regulate, prohibit entry, and limit the stay of foreigners.

Each sovereign state has its own regulations on admitting
and regulating foreigners to its country.

Sovereign states can enter into mutual agreements with
other sovereign states on specific procedures ot programs
involving the subject of immigration law. For example, the
‘US. has agreed to the following immigration programs:
‘Visa Waiver Program (“VWP”), European Union (“EU”)
and the North America Free Trade Agreement ("NAPTA”).
Intemational Treaties are not binding upon the U.S., even
when the U.S. is a signatory to the treaty, unless the treaty
is “self-executing” or Congress enacts supporting
legislation.

'b. The United States Constitution

Si
TCE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007

L

2.

3.

It, and its 27 Amendments, is the supreme law of the
us.

‘The Constitution is flexible, Since its ratification the
Constitution has grown with new amendments and it
has been constantly interpreted in Federal judicial
decisions. ‘The U.S. Supreme Court has the final
authority on cases and controversies concerning the
Constitution.

Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3, of the Constitution
empowered Congress to regulate commerce with
foreign nations.

A federal law enforcement officer’s primary duty is to
uphold the Constitution

tho!

Public itemational law
establishes the framework
and the criteria for
'dentiving states as the
principal actors Inthe
Intemational legal system.
As the existence of a state
presupposes contro! and.
jurisdiction over toritory,
international law deals with
‘he acauision of terry,
state immunity andthe
legal responsibilty of
slates in their conduct with
each other. international
lewis simileny concemed
withthe treatment of
indhicuals within state
boundaries. There is thus @
comprehensive regime
eating with group rights,
‘to treatmont of aon, the
Fights of rtugoos,
Iniematonal mes,
rnattonaty problems, and
bhuman rights genera. I
further inciudes the
important functions of the
maintenence of
inieraional peace and
secuy, arms contro, the
Pacific satiement of
Giputes and the reguletion
ofthe use of force in
international relations.
Even when the law is not
able to stop the outbroak of
‘war, ithas developed
principles to gover tho
Conduct of hostilities and
the treatment of prisoners.
International aw also
used to gover issues
relating o the olobal
environment, the global
‘commons such 28
Intemational waters and
‘outer space, global
‘communications, and word
trade,

Sea,
Inapenswikpediaorp'wikt
‘Public jotemational_ law
Immigration and Nationdlity Act (“INA®)

1. Congress wrote the INA using authority granted to it
fiom the Constitution. ‘These laws are codified at
Title 8 of the United States Code,

2. The INA of 1952 has been amended several times
with new Acts such as Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986 (“IRCA”), Immigration Act of
1990 (“IMMACT”), and the legal Immigration
‘Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996

CORIRA”),
4, Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations (“8 CER")

1. Congress gave authority to the Secretary of
Homeland Security (formerly the Attomey
General) to elaborate upon and implement the
INA in detail. Historically the Attorney General
clegated this duty to Legacy INS. Consequently,
Legacy INS formulated most of the current
regulations. Today the Attomey General still hes
limited authority over the regulations because he
still oversees EOIR. BOIR regulations are found in
the 1000’s section of 8 CFR. The rest of 8 CFR is
iow promulgated by DHS and the Secretary of
DHS, and can involve information governing the
activities of ICE, CBP and CIS.

2. These regulations ate binding on the public and on
‘the Government

3. These regulations cannot contradict the INA.

e. Decisions from the Attomey General and:various courts

Statut
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007

including the BIA, U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and U.S.

Supreme

1. ‘The above sources publish decisions on cases
involving complex or novel issues of immigration
law.

2, Published decisions can either be imperative or

persuasive authority depending on the source. DHS is

‘bound by decisions from Federal courts, not state

courts.

Author

Equally important
are the following:

DHS Delegation
‘Number 7030.

DHS Delegation
‘Number 7030.2

ICE Delegation
‘Number 0001

o1/DRO
Organizational
Delegation Orders
DHS/ICE Directives
and Policy
‘Memorandum,
2, Hierarchy of Authority
a. Statutory Authority

1. Statutory authority is authority that is provided for by
Jaw and enacted in statute.

2. For example: INA § 287(a)(1) states that “[ajny
officer or employee of the Service authorized under
regulations prescribed by the Attomey General shall
have power without warrant ... to interrogate any
alien or person belicved to be an alien as to his right
to be or to remain in the United States”.

b. Delegated Authority

1. Delegated authority is authority that is entrusted to
another.

2. A person who has the authority to act can delegate
that authority; however, that person retains overall
responsibility for the exercise of such authority and
the outcome, results, and consequences of the
delegatee’s actions.

3. For example: INA § 235(a)(4) states that “{aJn alien
applying for admission may, in the discretion of the
Attomey General and at any time, be permitted to
withdraw the application for admission and depart
immediately from the United States.”

‘The Secretary of DHS has delegated this authority,
and the Attomey General had delegated it, to certain
Immigration Officers. Although the authority to act is
delegated, the responsibility and ultimate liability for
permitting the alien to withdraw the application for
admission remains with the Secretary.

c. Implied Authority

a. Implied authority is the authority to act, although itis,
not specifically stated in statute, For example, INA §
287(a)(1) gives officers the authority to interrogate
‘without a warrant any alien or person that is believed
to be an alien about their right to be or remain in the
U.S. There is no mention of an authority to stop that
alien. However, it is implied the officer must first
stop that alien to interrogate that alien,

10

Fall, 2007
Accordingly, the officer has the implied authority to
stop and interrogate that alien in accordance with
established Federal 4* Amendment principles.

V. GNA §255(a) aspen)
1, INA§235(@)(1)

(1) Aliens treated as applicants for admission. An alien present in
the United States who has not been admitted or who arrives in the
United States (whether or not at a designated port of arrival and
including an alien who is brought to the United States after having
been interdicted in international or United States waters) shall be
deemed for purposes of this chapter an applicant for admission.

a. The term “applicant for admission” includes aliens?

1. Amiving in the US.,
2. Interdicted at sea,
3. Who have entered without inspection.

1b. Inspections of applicants for admission arriving in the
‘USS. or interdicted at sea have been delegated to CBP
Officers.

wo) uthori
ICE
Fall, 2007

Historically, the BIA held
‘that an alien who is
involuntarily brought tothe
‘United States by agenis of,
‘the United States should be
‘given a reasonable
‘opportunity to depart prior
1 the institution of
proceedings to deport the
alien from the United.
States. (See, Matter of
Badslament, 19 18N Deo.
(623, 626 BIA 1988) and
Matier of Loulos, 16 1&N
Dec. 34 (BIA 1976)]

However, subsequent to the
jaguance of is ine of
cases, Congress amend
the Act with the passage ox
the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996,
ub. L, 104-208, 110 Stat.
3009 ept. 30, 1996)
CmRIRAY.

‘Due to the amendments
nade tothe Aotby
UURIRA, Mane of
Badalamenti supra, and
‘Mater of Lonious supra,
axe no longer controlling
precedetin his matter.

"
2.” INA § 235(a)Q2)

|@) Stowaways. An arriving alien who is a stowaway is not eligible
to apply for admission or to be admitted and shall be ordered
removed upon inspection by an immigration officer. Upon such
inspection if the alien indicates an intention to apply for asylum
under section 208 or a fear of persecution, the officer shall refer the
alien for an interview under subsection (b)(1)(B) of this section. A
stowaway may apply for asylum only ifthe stowaway is found to
have a credible fear of persecution under subsection (b)(1)(B) of this
section, In no case may a stowaway be considered an applicant for
admission or eligible for a hearing under section 240.

INA § T0I@)(49) defines the term “stowaway”

any alien who obtains transportation without the consent of the
owner, charterer, master or person in command of any vessel or
aircraft through concealment aboard such vessel or aircraft. A

i 7
astowaway.

’. An alien stowaway who wishes to epply for asylum or who
claims to have a fear of persecution is referred for a credible fear
interview.

¢. A stowaway who is ordered removed by an Immigration Officer
under the authority of this statute is usually directed to be
removed on the vessel or aircraft on which the alien arrived in
the U.S.

4. The owner of the vessel or aircraft that brought the stowaway to
the U.S. is generally required to pay for the costs of detaining
and maintaining the alien until the alien physically departs the
US.

3. INA § 238(a)(@3)
@) Inspection. All aliens (including alien crewmen) who are
applicants for admission or otherwise seeking admission or
readmission to or transit through the United States shall be
inspected by immigration officers.

a. INA § 235(a)(3) does not authorize the searching of an alien
and/or the alien’s personal effects at a POE; that authority is

Statutory Author

ICE ACADEMY 12
Fall, 2007
found in INA §287(c).

. Applications to lawfully enter tho U.S, must be made in person
to an immigration officer at a designated and opea U.S. POE.
[See, 8 CFR §235.1(2)}

CBP officers at POEs cond

functional equivalent,

4. Because grounds of inadmissibility do not apply to U.S. citizens,
‘they are examined only, and not inspected.

e, However, even U.S. citizens (USCs) must prove their citizenship
‘when secking to enter the United States. If they fail to satisfy the
officer that they are U.S. citizens, then they will be inspected as
aliens. Both 8 CFR §235.1(b) and 22 CFR Part 53 address the
‘Travel Control requirements applicable to USCs.

£. One function of an officet’s inspection is to determine whether
the alien has proper documentation. For example, those aliens
lawfully admitted for permanent residence (“LPRs”) must submit
all their documentation to an officer for inspection.

4, INA §235(a))

(5) Statements, An applicant for admission may be required to state
under oath any information sought [Link] immigration officer
regarding the purposes and intentions of the applicant in seeking
admission to the United States, including the applicant's intended
length of stay and whether the applicant intends to remain
permanently or become a United States citizen, and whether the
‘applicant is inadmissible.

a. INA §235(a)(S) grants immigration officers the authority to take
‘a statement from an applicant for admission about his
admissibility to the U.S. A USC is notan applicant for
admission once U.S. citizenship has been established. This
authority cannot be used when taking information under oath
from a USC.

WORKBOOK: Statutory Authority

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007

‘The most frequently used
method used for sworn
stazerents ata POB ie the
“gustion and answe” format.
(CBP offices are ofen
requied, due to the alien's

‘ntrpetor may be present for
the interview ore might be
‘providing seevoas by phone.
tho officer will etaith a
consistent and reliable means
of gathering information and
we ad follow the samo
_Patiem and practice cach tine,
‘sworn statements are mare
[key to stand upto any
challenges raised in
immigration court oc fr that
rater in Federal distict
cour.

13

You might also like

CSRA Precludes Jurisdiction in DHS Case

PDF

No ratings yet

CSRA Precludes Jurisdiction in DHS Case
7 pages

USCIS FOIA/PA Processing Guide

PDF

No ratings yet

USCIS FOIA/PA Processing Guide
262 pages

Alabama Voting Rights Compliance Review

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Voting Rights Compliance Review
3 pages

Hazleton Immigration Ordinance Case

PDF

No ratings yet

Hazleton Immigration Ordinance Case
347 pages

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)

PDF

No ratings yet

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)
282 pages

Valle del Sol v. Whiting Appeal Summary

PDF

No ratings yet

Valle del Sol v. Whiting Appeal Summary
46 pages

Alabama Certiorari Denial Implications

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Certiorari Denial Implications
42 pages

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)

PDF

No ratings yet

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)
87 pages

Understanding FOIA: Access and Impact

PDF

No ratings yet

Understanding FOIA: Access and Impact
38 pages

Permanent Injunction on S.B. 1070 Sections

PDF

No ratings yet

Permanent Injunction on S.B. 1070 Sections
1 page

Alabama GED Policy Manual

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama GED Policy Manual
9 pages

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc
77 pages

Petition for En Banc Rehearing

PDF

0% (1)

Petition for En Banc Rehearing
27 pages

Alabama Appeals Court Writ Denial Analysis

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Appeals Court Writ Denial Analysis
3 pages

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc
116 pages

Religious Exemption Concerns in Alabama

PDF

No ratings yet

Religious Exemption Concerns in Alabama
2 pages

DOJ Concerns on Alabama Education Law

PDF

No ratings yet

DOJ Concerns on Alabama Education Law
4 pages

Alabama Appeals Court Ruling on H.B. 56

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Appeals Court Ruling on H.B. 56
3 pages

Compliance with Alabama Immigration Act

PDF

No ratings yet

Compliance with Alabama Immigration Act
6 pages

ICE Directive on Alien Return Policy

PDF

No ratings yet

ICE Directive on Alien Return Policy
3 pages

Immigration Detainer Notice of Action

PDF

No ratings yet

Immigration Detainer Notice of Action
3 pages

Alabama Immigration Act Compliance Memo

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Immigration Act Compliance Memo
6 pages

Footer menu

Back to top

About
About Scribd, Inc.
Slideshare
Join our team!
Contact us

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Social

Instagram Instagram

Facebook Facebook

Pinterest Pinterest

Get our free apps

About
About Scribd, Inc.
Slideshare
Join our team!
Contact us

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices

Social

Instagram Instagram

Facebook Facebook

Pinterest Pinterest

Get our free apps

Documents

Language :
English

Copyright © 2026 Scribd Inc.

We take content rights seriously. Learn more in our FAQs or report infringement here .

We take content rights seriously. Learn more in our FAQs or report infringement here .

Language :
English

Copyright © 2026 Scribd Inc.

