

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Constitutional Provisions and Civil Rights

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook &ndash Constitutional Provisions and Civil Rights
J Cox
For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564
19
550
11 / 01 / 2009

Government Docs

http://s7.scribdassets.com/images/filetypes/pdf_16x16.gif?1298523092

-->

Scribd

Upload a Document

Search Documents

Explore

Documents
Books - Fiction
Books - Non-fiction
Health & Medicine
Brochures/Catalogs
Government Docs
How-To Guides/Manuals
Magazines/Newspapers
Recipes/Menus
School Work
+ all categories

Featured
Recent

People
Authors
Students
Researchers
Publishers
Government & Nonprofits
Businesses
Musicians
Artists & Designers
Teachers
+ all categories

Most Followed
Popular

-->

Sign Up

|

Log In

From: J Cox

+ Subscribe

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Constitutional Provisions and Civil Rights

Reading should be social! Post a message on your social networks to let others know what you're reading. Select the sites below and start sharing.

Readcast this Document

Recent Activity

Share & Embed

Related Documents

Previous Next

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

p.

More from this user

Previous Next

21 p.

24 p.

22 p.

21 p.

21 p.

3 p.

2 p.

7 p.

28 p.

34 p.

94 p.

21 p.

28 p.

4 p.

14 p.

10 p.

6 p.

11 p.

3 p.

2 p.

3 p.

3 p.

3 p.

3 p.

3 p.

Featured on Scribd

2 p.

"The Violence Must Stop; M...
From: Zimvi
Reads: 1,633

429 p.

Saif Gaddafi's PHD thesis
From: ellykilroy
Reads: 4,426

60 p.

CNBC Warren Buffett Transcript,...
From: CNBC
Reads: 2,645

3 p.

Julian Assange: The Duke of Ell...
From: Jurassicpork
Reads: 795

10 p.

Dr. Seuss Nonfiction Reader
From: Brooke Perry
Reads: 2,656

3 p.

The Winningest Winner of All!
From: Suzanne de Cornelia
Reads: 1,393

1 p.

Where is Gadhafi's money?
From: lfpress
Reads: 6,930

3 p.

President Barack Obama Meeting ...
From: Zimvi
Reads: 1,313

10 p.

UN Security Council Resolution ...
From: exit_exit
Reads: 3,612

2 p.

President Barack Obama Letter t...
From: Zimvi
Reads: 2,586

8 p.

2011 Academy Awards Nominees an...
From: Mariko
Reads: 4,842

1 p.

And the Oscars go to...
From: lfpress
Reads: 3,007

1 p.

Oscar Nominations List
From: The State Newspaper
Reads: 2,357

266 p.

USA Inc. - A Basic Summary of A...
From: KleinerPerkins
Reads: 30,974

148 p.

The State of the World’s Childr...
From: UNICEF
Reads: 3,353

15 p.

Khalid Ali-M Aldawsari Affidavit
From: TheDallasMorningNews
Reads: 6,077

28 p.

Julian Assange can be extradite...
From: Justia.com
Reads: 2,970

3 p.

Obama On Libya Feb. 23
From: NYDNDailyPolitics
Reads: 4,953

1 p.

Earthquakes
From: lfpress
Reads: 4,031

1 p.

Tea Party Sheriff Tells Tea Par...
From: ProgressOhio251
Reads: 4,692

1 p.

Libya in Crisis
From: lfpress
Reads: 7,054

27 p.

Reform in Libya: Chimera or Rea...
From: gmfus
Reads: 3,328

1 p.

Defend Ohio Leaflet
From: Mike Cannon
Reads: 3,637

662 p.

Financial Crisis Inquiry Report
From: Stuart Nam
Reads: 2,802

1 p.

State-by-state education cuts
From: TheDallasMorningNews
Reads: 6,320

﻿----------------------------------------------PARTICWANTVVORKBOOK
Lesson Plan Overview
Course
Constitutional Provisions and Civil Rights
Course Purpose
The purpose of this course is to identify specific provisions afforded
in the Constitution and within the United States Code relating to the
authorities and duties of the LEA Officer.
lThe course will also outline provisions for the protection of rights
and due process for aliens and other persons encountered during the
course of immigration enforcement activities, and the consequences
of failure to do so by the LEA officer.
Field Performance
Given situations related to ICE enforcement, Law Enforcement
Objective
Officers will be able to identify the specific limitations on ICE
officer authority while conducting ICE enforcement-related activities,
according to the provisions of the U.S. Constitution and other Federal
. !statutes and regulations.
~terim (Training)
1.
Identify the provisions of the 4tn Amendment as it relates to
lPerformance Objectives
aliens in ICE criminal and administrative matters.
~.
Identify the provisions of the 5th Amendment as it relates to
aliens in ICE criminal and administrative matter.
3.
Identify the provisions of the 6th Amendment as it relates to
aliens in ICE criminal and administrative matters.
~.
Identify the provisions of the 14th Amendment and its application
when dealing with aliens,
5.
Discuss specific Federal statutes that address the deprivation of
an alien's civil rights and the related consequences.
6.
Identify the INA provisions discussing an 'alien's right to counsel
~struCtiOnal Methods
rTwO-hQur classroom lecture .
287(G) OFFICER TRAINING JANUARY 2008
LEA
CIVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH.AND SEIZURE PAGEl
--------~ ...... ----------------- PARTICIPANTWORJ{BOOK
Training Aids
)None
'!:
,"
,,or
Student Materials)
'Participant WorkbookIncluding documents contained in workbook
References
appendix.
'"
; It
> ,~
Instructional Equipment
Overhead projector, handouts, chalkboard
Icon Legend
(Those used in this lesson ate highlighted)
[Ii]
ft
leg --PJI
----
&A
"
Show Overhead
Conduct
Di~tdb~te"
Conduct Quiz
' 'Questionand
. Play
Transparency
'Exercise
"Videotape
Handout
AnswerPertoo
"
..
287(G) OFFICER TRA1:NING JA.NtJARY 2008
, LEA
cIViL RIGHTS/SEARCH ANn SltIZtiRE
PAGE 2
----------------------------------------------PARTIC~~~VVORKBOOK
._.-
OVERHEADS
1. ICE
2. Title
3. Field Performance Objective
4. Training Performance Objectives
5. Fourth Amendment
6. Encounter in a Public Place
7. Encounter in a Public Place
8. Seizure of a Person - Consensual Encounter
9. Principal Levels of Encounter - Investigative Stops
10. Principal Levels of Encounter - Investigative Stops
11. Principal Levels of Encounter - Frisking
12. Principal Levels of Encounter - Arrest.
13. Seizure of Property - Exceptions to Search Warrant Provisions
14. Border Search
15. Search Warrants
16. Fifth Amendment - Double Jeopardy
17. Fifth Amendment -. Self Incrimination
18. Fifth Amendment - Criminal vs. Administrative Violations
19. Fifth Amendment - Criminal vs. Administrative Violations
20. Authority Take Statements/Evidence
21. Authority Take Statements - Interrogation Procedures
22. Fifth Amendment - Deprivation without Due Process
23. Sixth Amendment - Right to Counsel
24. Sixth Amendment= Administrative Violations
25. 8 CPR 292 - Right to Counsel
26. Fourteenth Amendment Deprivation of Civil Rights by States
27. Consequences
28. The End
287(G) OmCERTRAINING JANUARY 2008
CIVIL RlGBTS/SEARCH.AND SEIZURE
PAGE 3
LEA
-----------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
I. INTRODUCTION
In order for law enforcement officers to perform their duties, they must be constantly aware of the provisions within the Constitution that relate specifically to enforcement activity, as their duties revolve around the freedoms that are afforded to individuals under its jurisdiction.
The purpose of this course is to identify.specific provisions afforded in the Constitution and within the United States Code relating to LEA Officers while exercising authorities granted
bylaw. ' "
The course will also outline provisions for protection of rights and due process for aliens and other persons encountered during the Course offhe law, enforcement activity, and the consequences of failure.to do so'b~;theLEA officer ..
II. FOURTH AMENDMENT - SEARCH AND SEIZURE
A. Provisions
The Fourth Amendment provides the right of the people to be free from unreasonable searches and seizures:
"The right of the people to be secure in their persons houses, papers and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated and no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cttuse, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the
persons or things-tbbe seiZed.;~'·, ; ;; ,"
287(G) OFFICER TRAINiNG JANUARY 2008
"
CIVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH ANn SE:rzUR:E , '
PAGE 4
-----------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
B. Applicability
1. Searches and seizures pertain to both property and persons; including the, detention and arrest of persons.
2. For ICE purposes, the Fourth Amendment provisions apply in both criminal and administrative provisions of the lNA.
3. This right pertains to every person encountered, including U.S. citizens, lawful permanent resident aliens, and undocumented aliens.
4. The implementation of and exceptions to the Fourth Amendment have been established by legislative action, precedential decisions, and regulation.
C. Fourth Amendment - Seizure of a Person
1. Principal Levels of Encounter
In order to effectively discuss the Fourth Amendment and the related provisions of the lNA, the officer must differentiate between the levels of an encounter as they apply to all individuals.
There are three principal levels of an encounter that ICE officers face with the public at non-border locations: consensual encounters, investigative stops, and arrests.
a. Consensual Encounter
A consensual encounter can occur when an officer interacts with an individual and that individual is free to walk away from, and decline to speak to, the Officer.
An officer, like any other person, has the right to ask questions of anyone as long as the officer does not restrain the freedom of the individual, who is not under arrest, to walkaway.
287(G) OFFICER TRAINING JMlJARY 2008
LEA
CIVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH Al'lt'D SEIZURE PAGES
.. ', ,
------------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
b. Investigative Stops
An investigative stop occurs when a person is' '~seized" or "stopped" when, in view of all of the circumstances surrounding the incident, a reasonable person would believe
that they were not free to leave. '
The law recognizes this type of stop (as well as arrest, discussed later) as a seizure for purposes of the Fourth Amendment.
The Supreme Court has ruled that police officers may in appropriate circumstances and in an appropriate manner, approach a person for purposes 'of investigating possible , criminal behavior even though there is no probable cause to make an arrest (Terry v. Ohio).
In order to effect an investigative stop, the LEA Officer must have reasonable suspicion based on articulable facts that the person being questioned is (or is attempting to be) engaged in an ICE-related criminal or administrative offense within the officer's jurisdiction.
The INA provides the officer with specific authority to interrogate an alien or a person believed to be an alien as to his right to be or remain in the United States.
For ICE purposes, an interrogation would be used to:
• Determine if the individual is an alien, and
• Determine whether the individual, if an alien, is in
the U.S. in violation oflaw. "
There is implied authority for an officer to detain a person in order to interrogate (investigative stop). In order to justify the stop, the officer must have reasonable suspi.ci~n based on articulable fac~~ that the person may be an alien
who is illegally in the united States.' . . .' ..
The same rules apply regardless of the alienage or possible illegality of the person's presence in the United States.
287(G) bmCER 1'RA1NING" JA.NlrARY 2008
CIVIL RIGHTs/SmCi'ANl> SEIZURE ' PAGE'ij
-----------------------------------------------PARTICWANTVVORKBOOK
The ICE officer must be able to substantiate the investigative stop with more than one articulable fact.
The landmark case for this area oflaw is United States v. Brignoni-Ponce (1975). Roving Border Patrol agents stopped a vehicle near the border and questioned the occupants about their citizenship and immigration status. The only basis for the stop that was articulated by the agents was the apparent Mexican ancestry of the occupants.
The Supreme Court ruled that a roving patrol could stop a vehicle only if the officer is aware of specific articulable facts, together with rational inferences from those facts, that . reasonably warrants suspicion that the vehicle contained illegal aliens.
Apparent Mexican ancestry was a relevant factor in obtaining reasonable suspicion, but standing alone was insufficient to stop the individuals.
This is an administrative case, but it also applies in criminal proceedings.
An example of this in action in the criminal context is that a LEA Officer cannot stop a vehicle for an investigation into smuggling just because the occupants appear Mexican.
In any case, the length of the stop is justified if officers were diligently pursuing the investigation.
c. Arrest
An arrest occurs when a reasonable person in the suspect's situation would have believed they were in custody (under arrest).
Probable cause is needed by LEA Officers to arrest a suspect during criminal or administrative encounters.
287(G) OFFICER TRAINING JANUARY 2008
LEA
CIVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH AND SEIZURE
PAGE 7
------------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
For ICE-related criminal arrests.the sarnestandards apply regardless of whether the subject ls"a'lJ;8. 'Citizen, resident alien, or undocumented alien. ,
ICE criminal and administrative arrests can be made by officers without a warrant if consent or exigent Circumstances exist.
d. Simultaneous Arrests
Officers are tasked with enforcing both administrative and criminal laws and regulations. In some instances, therewill be probable cause to believe that the suspect has committed administrative and criminal offenses at the time of'arrest.
j ; ~ ••
In this circumstance, the alien's rights and due process concerning the criminal arrest must be observed first .
. "
The administrative proceeding may not be used to delay or
circumvent the alien's constitutional rights. '
D. Fourth Amendment - Seizure ofProperty
1. Exceptions to Warrant Provisions
Warrantless searches are unreasonable pet se, unless there is an applicable exception present. These exceptions are applicable in criminal and a<hJ:t.~strative investiga~op.s:
a. b.
Frisk of Subject during InvestigativeStop Search Incident to Arrest
c. Vehicle Search Incident to Arrest
d. Protective Sweep of Dwelling Incident to Arrest
e. Consent
f. Exigent Circumstances
g. Hot Pursuit
h. Public Place
i. j. k. 1.
Detention Facility Search Plain View/Sense
Open Field
Canine Sniffs
287(G) OFFiCERTRAlN.rNG .' JANtrA.Ry 2008
LEA
civIL RIGHTS/SEARCH AND 8EIZl1RE c \ "."
----------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
m. Border Searches
The lNA provides ICE Officers with the authority to search conveyances at a port of entry without a warrant.
ICE Officers have the authority to stop and investigate suspicious circumstances within a reasonable distance of any United States land border if there is reasonable suspicion based on articulable facts that illegal aliens are being brought into the United States.
The officer must be able to substantiate the stop with more than one articulable fact
During this brief stop, the ICE Officer may question the driver and occupants about their citizenship and immigration status; ask for an explanation of the suspicious circumstances, and request consent to search the vehicle.
In the absence of consent, the officer must obtain probable cause that illegal aliens are being brought into the United States in order to search the vehicle.
ICE officers also have the authority to enter onto private lands (but not dwellings) within 25 miles of any United States land border for the purpose of patrolling the border.
287(G) OFFICER TRAINING JANUARY 2008
LEA
CIVJL RIGHTS/SEARCH AND SEIZURE PAGE 9
------------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
The term "patrolling the border" means ''to prevent the illegal entry of aliens into the United States ... conducting such activities as are customary, orreasonable iliid . necessary, to prevent the illegalentry of alieniihto the United States".
Officers also have the authority to conduct a warrantless search of a person or personal effects at the border or its functional equivalent.
This includes the land border, seaports, and international
airports, and extends to allpersons andvehicles. .
This exception also includes the border "nexus" which extends beyond the physical border under cclta.iil . circumstances.
,.', ,;
Probable cause is not need~d.to c~nduct this type of search. The officer must have reasonable suspicion to believe that a ground of inadmissibility will exist or be disclosed after searching a person or personal effects. .
However, intrusive searches of a person (i.e. cavity searches) require a higher level of suspicion.
2. Search Warrants
The purpose of a search warrant is to deem the search "reasonable" by an impartial party.
ICE officers execute search warrants based on criminal or administrative/civil provisions. Regardless of the type, it must be substantiated by probable cause.
Both criminal and administrative/civil search warrants are obtained at the U.S. Federal District Court from a District Court Judge or a Magistrate.
An administrative/civil search warrant is never to be used as a pretext to obtain evidence for criminal prosecution.
287(G) OFFICER TRA1:NING . JANUARY 2008
'LEA
CtvlLRIGHTS/S~ARCH AND SElZlmE PAGEio
------------------------------------------------PARTIOT~~VVORKBOOK
An example of an administrative warrant is a "Blackie's Warrant", which enables officers to search for unauthorized aliens. It is used primarily in investigations involving employers of unauthorized aliens, who will not grant ICE permission to enter their premises to survey employees as to their right to be or remain in the United States.
The INA grants ICE Officers subpoena authority.
This provision is not limited to the attendance, testimony, or documents regarding just aliens; rather, it states that "any person" could include U.S. citizens.
287(G) OFFICER TRAINING JANUARY 2008
LEA
CrvlL RIGHTS/SEARCH AND SEIZURE
PAGE 11
------------------------------------------------PARTICWANTVVORKBOOK
III. FIFTH AMENDMENT - PROTECTION ,FROM DOUBLE JEOPARDY, SELF.,INCRIMINATION, DEPRIVATION OF LIFE, LffiERTY AND PROPERTY VVITHOUT DUERROCESS
A. Provisions
The Fifth Amendment provides:
"(No person shall) •.• be subject for the same offense to be tried twice •.• (nor) compelledin a"y way to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived 0/ life, liberty or properly without due process of law.
'i
B. Double Jeopardy
For ICE purposes, this applies to criminal provisions only.
In criminal matters, this amendment applies to anyone under the jurisdiction of the United States, including U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, and undocumented aliens.
C. Self-Incrimination
1. Applicability
The Fifth Amendment specifically protects against selfincrimination in criminal cases.
In ICE-related criminal matters, this amendment applies to anyone under the jurisdiction of the United States, including U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, and undocumented aliens.
The burden of proof for admissibility (to prove lawful entry into the United States) is on the alien for the pending administrative violation.
2. Criminal Violations
Miranda v. Arizona provides that prior to custodial interrogation for a criminal offense, an officer must provide the suspect with certain warnings, specifically protection
287(G) OFFICER TRAIN1:NG .tANUARY 2008
LEA
Crvn, RIGHTS/SEARCH AND S:E~ZURE .
PAGEl2
----------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
from self-incrimination (the right to "remain silent").
This applies regardless of whether the person is a U.S. citizen, resident alien or undocumented alien.
Miranda warnings are not necessary if an officer has no:
• Expect questioning to elicit an incriminating
response, or
• Intention of criminally prosecuting the subject
based on the information obtained.
3. Administrative Violations
An officer has the authority to interrogate an alien without warrant about the alien's right to be or remain in the United States .
. After the arrest of an alien for an administrative violation, the alien must be advised that any statement made may be used against them in a subsequent (criminal) proceeding.
As stated previously, the burden of proof is on the alien to prove inadmissibility; therefore, even if the alien is in custody, he is not protected by Fifth Amendment provisions for the purposes of administrative questioning. .
If an alien is detained for an administrative violation and the focus of any communication may result in contemplated criminal prosecution, Miranda warnings must be given,
2S7(G) OFFICER TRAINING JANUARY 2008
LEA
CIVn. RIGHTS/SEARCH AND SEIZURE
PAGE 13
-- ..... - ....... -;......---------------- PARTt6PANTWORKBOOK
4. Authority of Officers to Take StatementslEvidence
Officers have the authority to take a-statement from an applicant for admission (not a U.S. citizen) about the alien's admissibility to the UilltedStates. ~This statement is taken from aliens at POE's or borders when aliens are deemed inadmissible.
Officers also have the authority to takeoaths from any person (not just an applicant for admission) about an alien's privilege to enter, transit through or reside in the United States.
For example, this oath could be taken from a u.s: citizen who has information about a particular alien who is entering the United States with a false passport.
Finally, the INA provides officers with the authority to administer oaths and take evidence from any person (not just an applicant for admission) about any-person's privilege to enter, pass through or reside ill the United States or anything else that is relevant to the enforcement of the INA.
For example, this oath could be taken from a U.S. citizen' who has information about another U.S. citizen that is smuggling aliens into the United States. Italso applies when taking an interrogative statetnent from a U.S. citizen smuggler, concerning their activity.
2S7(G) OFFIcER T~G JANUARY 2008
CIVIL RIGHTs/SEARCH ANn SEIZUR.E,'
. PAGii4
----------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
D. Deprivation of Life, Liberty and Property without Due Process
1. Applicability
The Amendment specifically affords due process in criminal cases.
Most violations of immigration law, which are mostly
. administrative in nature, also require due process in the form of an INA Section 240 removal hearing.
2. Criminal Violations
The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that persons under the jurisdiction of the government are afforded the protection of the Constitution.
This protection is afforded to anyone within the jurisdiction of the United States, which includes U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents and undocumented aliens.
3. Administrative Violations
The INA provides removal hearings for most administrative violators.
Violators may be detained prior to, during and subsequent to removal proceedings, at the discretion of designated ICE officers and the Immigration Judge.
An alien may be detained until removal is effected, depending on specific circumstances (i.e., mental health, mandatory detention provisions of the INA, etc.)
287(G) OFFICER TRAINING JANUARY 2008
LEA
CIVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH AND SEIZURE PAGElS
------~--------------------------------------PARTICWANTVVORKB66K
IV. SIXTH AMENDMENT - RIGHT TO COUNSEL
A. Provisions
The Sixth Amendment provides:
"In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right ... to have the assistance of counsel for his defense. "
B. Applicability
The Amendment specifically provides the right to counsel in criminal cases.
Although not specified in this Amendment, aliens are provided with a limited right to counsel in administrative cases.
C. Criminal Violations
Miranda v. Arizona provides all subjects arrested for a criminal violation with the right to consult with a lawyer, to have a lawyer present during questioning, and if indigent, to
have counsel provided. .
These provisions are afforded to subjects in custody prior to interrogation, regardless of whether the subject is a U.S. citizen, resident alien or undocumented alien.
Once an individual requests counsel, interrogation must cease immediately and the suspect may notbe interrogated about the
case until after conferring with counsel, unless the sUbject' !
initiates further conversation.
D. Administrative Violations
The lNA provides that an alien arrested under authority granted to ICE officers must be informed of their right to be represented by counsel (at no expense to the government).
ClVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH AND $EIZl.JRE . ,:'
PAGE 16
287(G) O~FIcERf~d' JANUARY 2008
------------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
Administrative violators must also be informed of the availability of free legal service programs, and must be provided with a list of the free legal services in the district where the proceedings are to be held.
If an alien requests representation after an administrative arrest, the alien will be given two hours to contact counsel before administrative interrogative questioning can proceed .:
Pedigree or "Booking" information may still be obtained at this time.
E. Right to Counsel
1. Representatives
The following are persons authorized to represent aliens at . removal hearings:
•.. Attorney
• Law student or graduate (not yet admitted to bar)
• Reputable individuals
• Accredited representatives (described in the next section)
• Accredited officials
• Foreign attorneys
2. Qualifications of Organizations that Offer Legal Services '.
A non-profit, charitable social service or similar organization established in the United States and recognized as such by the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) may designate a representative to practice before the IJ and/or BIA, provided:
• It makes only nominal charges and assesses no
excessive membership dues for persons given assistance, and
• It has at its disposal adequate knowledge,
information and experience.
287(G) OFFICER TRAlNING JANUARY 2008 .
LEA
CIVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH AND SEIZURE PAGEl7
------------------------------------------------PARTICWANTVVORKBOOK
3. Accreditation of Representatives
The recognized organization may apply for accreditation of persons of good moral character as its representatives to practice before the IJ and/or BIA.
V. FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT -DEPRIVATION OF CIVIL RIGHTS BY STATE
A. Provisions
The Fourteenth Amendment provides:
"(No state shall) deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law, nor deny to any person within it's jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. "
B. Applicability
The Fourteenth Amendment ensures that state authorities do not create any law or conduct any activity that contradicts the principles set forth in prior or subsequent amendments.
As such, all previous discussions related to criminal matters apply to all outside law enforcement agencies (not just federal government agencies, as covered in the Bill of Rights).
t 't';> ,.:, • ~; "
; "' ~ ... , ; ; t! '" I "':. .
" ,
2~7(G~,OFFICER TRAINING JANUARY 2008
:" ',;
LEA
CIVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH ANn SJl:JZmu: ",,, 'PAGE 18
-----------------------------------------------PARTIC~ANTVVORKBOOK
C. . Consequences of the Failure of a LEA Officer to honor the Fourteenth Amendment
a. Suppression of evidence
b. Suppression of statements made during stoP/after arrest
c. Criminal Prosecution under:
• 18 USC 241- Conspiracy to violate constitutional rights
• 18 USC 242 - Deprivation of rights under color of law
• 18 USC 2236 - Search in excess of authority
• 18 USC 2235 - Search Warrant procured maliciously without probable. cause, but with willful lies
• Any Related State Provisions
d. Civil Liability:
• 42 USC 1983 - Addresses personal liability of state
and local law enforcement officers for deprivation of rights under color oflaw. To be discussed in detail in another lesson.
• Federal Tort Claims Act - Makes Government
liable for wrongful acts of federal employees or their agents acting within the scope of their employment.
.'
287(G) OFFICER TRAINING JANUARY 2008
LEA
CIVIL RIGHTS/SEARCH AND SEIZURE PAGE 19

About

Reads:
550

Rated:

Published:
11 / 01 / 2009

Category:

Government Docs

Add to Collections

Report this document

Description:

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Show More

Description:

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Tags:

ice , immigration , FOIA , dhs , immigration and customs enforcement , department of homeland security , 287g , 287(g) , immigration enforcement , constitutional rights , amendment , reasonable suspicion , law , vs , ice agent , workbook , immigration , field , open

Copyright:

Attribution Non-commercial

OCR:

Document OCR 'd by Scribd

- Show less

Login to Add a Comment

Submit

Sign up
Use your Facebook login and see what your friends are reading and sharing.

Other login options Login with Facebook

Signup
I don't have a Facebook account

email address (required)

create username (required)

password (required)

Send me the Scribd Newsletter, and occasional account related communications.

Sign Up
Privacy policy

You will receive email notifications regarding your account activity. You can manage these notifications in your account settings.
We promise to respect your privacy.

Why Sign up?

Discover and connect with people of similar interests.

Publish your documents quickly and easily.

Share your reading interests on Scribd and social sites.

Already have a Scribd account?

email address or username

password

Log In

Trouble logging in?

Login Successful
Now bringing you back...

« Back to Login

Reset your password

Please enter your email address below to reset your password. We will send you an email with instructions on how to continue.

Email address:

You need to provide a login for this account as well.

Login:

Submit

Upload a Document

Search Documents

Follow Us!
scribd.com/scribd
twitter.com/scribd
facebook.com/scribd
About
Press
Blog
Partners
Scribd 101
Web Stuff
Scribd Store
Support
FAQ
Developers / API
Jobs
Terms
Copyright
Privacy

Copyright © 2010 Scribd Inc.
Language:

Choose the language in which you want to experience Scribd:
English
Español
Português (Brasil)

