

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Immigrant Classifications | PDF

Skip to main content

Open navigation menu

Close suggestions Search
Search

en Change Language , English

Upload

Sign in

Sign in

0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 22 views 53 pages

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Immigrant Classifications

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Uploaded by J Cox

AI-enhanced title

Copyright
© Attribution Non-Commercial (BY-NC)
We take content rights seriously. If you suspect this is your content, claim it here .

Available Formats
Download as PDF or read online on Scribd

Download

Save Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Immigrant Classi... For Later

Share

0% 0% found this document useful, Mark this document as useful

0% 0% found this document not useful, Mark this document as not useful

Print

Embed

Report

0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 22 views 53 pages

ICE 287 (G) Participant Workbook - Immigrant Classifications

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007

For more on 287(g) generally, see http://www.scribd.com/doc/23298564

Uploaded by J Cox

AI-enhanced title

Copyright
© Attribution Non-Commercial (BY-NC)
We take content rights seriously. If you suspect this is your content, claim it here .

Available Formats
Download as PDF or read online on Scribd

Go to previous items

Download

Save Save ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Immigrant Classi... For Later

Share

0% 0% found this document useful, Mark this document as useful

0% 0% found this document not useful, Mark this document as not useful

Print

Embed

Report
Go to next items

Download

‘Lesson Plan Overview

Course IMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATIONS

[Course Description ‘An eight-hour course of lastruction with an emphasis on immigrant
classifications. Included are the documentary requirements for
admission to the United States as well as the exceptions to
documentary requirements for an alien or classes of aliens. Procedures
for changes of immigrant status are explained. This is a basic
introductory course. Officers will need to develop additional skills and
knowledge after basic training to deal with more complicated
situations, which will be encountered on the job.

‘Field Performance |The immigration officer will be able to make an accurate determination |
‘Objective of an applicant’s right to be or remain in the United States according to |
law, regulations, policy and operational instructions.
Interim (Training) T._ Classify applicants for admission based on established
Performance Objectives criteria for each of the more comamon immigrant
classifications.

2. Identify the criteria to establish eligibility for admission,
into the U.S. for each of the classes discussed.

3. Identify the types of documents required for each
Classification.

4, Identify those aliens within the U.S. who are subject to
the laws of alien registration.

Instructional Methods Lecture, PowerPoint Presentation
Time 8 Hours -

“Training Aids Computer and overhead projector

‘Method of Evaluation — Maltiple choice examination |

WORKBOOK: Immigrant Classifications
ICE ACADEMY

Fall, 2007
I. DEFINITIONS

A. An ALIEN is defined in section 101(2)(3) of the INA as any
person not a citizen or national of the United States. ‘There is a
presumption that all people who arrive in the United States are
aliens until they can demonstrate otherwise.

B. An alien is presumed to be an IMMIGRANT, a term, which is,
defined in section 101(a)(15) of the INA as every alien except an
alien who is within one of the classes of nonimmigrants. Aliens
are presumed to be immigrants until they can show that they fall
into one of the existing classes of nonimmigrant aliens.

ALIEN

NONIMMIGRANT

Il. CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES (CIS)
PETITIONS

A. Certain individuals such as priority workers, investors, certain
special immigrants, and diversity immigrants can file petitions or
applications on their own behalf, All others must have a relative
or potential employer petition for them. ‘The alien who has a
petition filed on his or her behalf is considered the
“BENEFICIARY” of the petition.

B. Petitions are submitted using specific public use immigration
forms (See, 8 C-F.R. 299.1 for a comprehensive list of public use
forms}. ‘In this situation, Forms -130, 1-140, and 1-360 are used
to establish a relationship and determine eligibility for the
classification sought. It is often the first step in the process of an
alien becoming an immigrant.

300)
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
C. Most petitions to classify an alien as an immigrant are filed with
one of several Service Centers operated by United States
Citizenship and Immigrations Services (CIS).

IL IMMIGRANT VISA APPLICATION PROCESS

‘A visa is commonly understood thtougtiout the world to bea
passport stamp or document that authorizes the passport-holder to
enter a country for specific purposes and for a particular time period,
‘The United States Department of State (DOS) issues both
nonimmigrant and immigrant visas for entry into this country, An
IMMIGRANT VISA is a “... visa required by this act and properly
issued by a consulat officer at his office outside of the United States
to an eligible immigrant wider the provisions of this Act.” [See,'
Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) Section 101(@)(16)]

‘A. The application for an immigrant visa is generally made abroad
at either a U.S. Consulate or U.S. Enttbassy having jurisdiction
over the beneficiary's place of residence.

B. Generally, every alien applying for an immigrant visa is required
by the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of
2004 to appear personally before a consular officer. This
requirement may be waived only for a child under the age of 14,
(See, 22 CFR. 42.62]

C. The consular officer will often require the alien applicant to
furnish documents to éstablish the alien’s eligibility to receive an
immigrant visa ineluding: :

i, Police cettificates (if available in alien’s country)
Prison Record (certified copy of any existing record)
Military records . :
Birth certificates

“Marriage licenses or

vi, Any othet document considered necessary by the consular
officer [See, 22 CFR. 42.65]

D. Immigration Jaws probibit visa issuance to certain applicants.
‘These grounds of inadmissibility are found in Section 212(a)
INA and include such things as prostitution, drug crimes,
terrorist activities, etc.

E. Upon receipt of the approved petition or official notification of
its approval, consular officers are authorized to grant an alien
‘immediate relative or preference status. The status accorded in

WORKBOOK: Immigrant Classifications
ICE ACADEMY :
Fall, 2007
such a petition status will be granted for the period authorized by
law or regulation. ‘The approval of a petition does not relieve the
alien of the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the
consular officer that the alien is eligible in all other respects to
receive a visa (See, 22 CFR. 42.41].

F. If the consular officer acting upon an application for a visa
knows or has reason to believe that the approval of the CIS
petition was obtained by fraud, misrepresentation, or other
‘unlawful means, or that the beneficiary is not eatitled, for some
other reason, to the status approved, he shall suspend action in
the application process and return the petition with a report of
the facts to CIS [See, 22 CFR. 42.43]

IV. VALIDITY OF IMMIGRANT VISAS

Generally, once issued by the consular officer, the maximum petiod
of validity of an immigrant visa is SEX'MONTHS [See, 22 CFR.
42.72), There ere two common exceptions to this six month validity
period:

EXPIRING PASSPORT OF ALIEN - The general immigrant
[passport requirement is that an alien’s passport must be valid at least
60 days beyond the expiration date of the immigrant visa. Those
immigrants that require a passport to immigrate to the United States,
but whose passport is not valid for at least 8 months at the time of
‘visa issuance will have the validity of their immigrant visa shortened
to meet the 60 day passport requirement.

EXAMPLE: An alien is at the consulate to receive his immigrant
visa. He has a passport that is valid for only five months. His
immigrant visa will be valid for only three months to accommodate
the 60 day passport requirement:

3 months + 60 days = 5 month validity of alien’s passport.
Y) + (PP) = PP expiration date)

IMPENDING BIRTHDAY OF A “CHILD” - The definition of
“child” is someone who is unmarried and under 21. If an alien will
tum 21 before the time an immigrant visa would typically expire
(within six months), then the visa’s expiration date will be changed
to coincide with the day before the alien’s 21st birthday.

EXAMPLE: An alien is at the consulate to receive her immigrant
visa that is designated with the classification for “child of a United
States citizen”. She is currently 20 years old and unmarried. Her

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
2st birthday is three months away. Her immigrant visa will be
valid until the day before her 21st birthday. Once she turns 21 she
is no longer corisidered a “child” and therefore ineligible for that
particular visa classification,

‘V. GENERAL IMMIGRANT REQUIREMENTS

sausaneon

‘A common misconception is that an immigrant visa grants an alien
the unfettered right to admission into the United States, This is
incorrect. An intending immigrant with a valid visa must still
establish alienage and identity, as well as show proof of eligibility
for admission. Ifthe individual has suffered a conviction between
the time the visa was issued and the application for admission, which ‘wm=w=s
renders him inadmissible, admission will be denied. Likewise, ifan Se

pt

individual seeks admission as a spouse, but subsequent to visa
issuance and prior to such application for admission the marriage Pictured above is the cu.
‘ended in divorce, admission would be denied. ‘version of an immigrant visa.
‘The arrow directs our
attention to an admission
stamp she would have
obtained at the POE, Below
the alien’s picture is a pre-
7 : ‘printed ADIT notation.

WORKBOOK: Immigrant Classifications ns

ICE ACADEMY oe
Fall, 2007
VI. IMMIGRANT ADMISSION PROCEDURES fot nusworr atv Y

A. Aliens admitted for lawful pennanent residence at a port-of-entry @ = a
(POE) are immediately processed for a Permanent Resident
Card (Form -551). They do not receive their actual Permanent ——_usumusurmeurmemares
Resident Card at the time of initial admission; rather they receive
temporary proof of their newly obtained status.
“Thins the nes Permanent Reside
B. While the immigrant awaits the manufacture and receipt of the [- G&2GomelSsp. Uisprodued by the
551, aprocess which can take up to several months, evidence of UCFS)sedisuetatcis Seve
hhis Or ker status as an immigrant is documented either: {o0n AsPermment Ren ere
‘a fora masta of 10 yar
1. inthe alien’s passport, or ovata heya 068 come te
2. on Form I-94 (Arrival-Departure Record) os
C. Form I-89 - Data Collection Form is used to'record an alien’s “=v fram
fingerprint end signature for his Permanent Resident Card. Sage
D. All immigrants who are admitted at a POE are provided proof of hia
their newly obtained status. The proof consists of an admission ie
stamp and an ADIT stamp. |
E. Not all immigrants are required to have a passport to immigrate ==...
to the United States, accordingly, these notations are either made i
in the alien’s passport, or in the case of an alien who is not —
required to have a passport, on the I-94, The admission stamp tye uampsdueusedat etd
will identify the place, date, and classification of entry, the wsergoncanag nine pust few year.
alien’s A-number, as well as the identity (by number) of the At'a2mmnccrampl ofthc Lema
inspecting officer and the duration of admission. The ADIT ote ADIT sap.
stamp serves as temporary evidence of permanent residence gayy yusee he crret
stafus and is valid for e period of one year. It in turn is used as stamp erented post Deparnt of
proof of eligibility to receive a social security card, accept Homan’ Searcy osaton anda
employment, and travel outside the United States.
P. Permanent Resident cards have validity periods of tem years (01m §
‘with the exception of those cards issued to conditional residents ax
that have a two-year expiration date, If a card has been st ===
mutilated, or is within six months of expiration a lawful
permanent resident is required to apply for a replacement, The S* tne ADIT samp below:
process requires the filing of a Form I-90 with CIS [See 8
CFR. 264.5] Saas Be
= F42 SPOUSE OF ALIEN CLASSIFIED F4i

‘Must accompany ot follow to join F41 SPOUSE OF F41
Does not have to be listed on F41’s I-130 petition, but F42
does require iti own visa application with the consulate
or embassy

‘© Cannot be petitioned for directly - is a derivative
classification

‘* Requires passport and admission at a port-of-entry does
require an immigrant visa separate froin the spouse's

343 CHILD OF ALIEN CLASSIFTED F41 z

CHILD OF F41

WOR!
TCE ACADEMY .
Fall, 2007
‘¢ Must accompany or follow to join F41

* Does not have to be listed on F41"s 1-130 petition, but
does require its own visa application with the consulate
‘or embassy

* Cannot be petitioned for directly - is a derivative
classification

+. Must meet definition of child at the time of visa
issuance and admission into the United States

‘+ Requires passport and admission at a port-of-entry does
require an immigrant visa separate from the parent's

NOTE: In order to petition for a brother or sister in the Family
Fourth Preference:

© The U.S. citizen must be at least 21 years of age at the time of
filing the F-130.

«The USS. citizen must not have immigrated to the United States
as an adopted child, orphan, or juvenile ward of the court. If
so, the U.S. cittzen is precluded from petitioning for a
biological sibling. The courts have ruled that once an alien
immigrates based on one of three aforementioned criteria, he
or she has severed ties with his or her former family and
therefore would be ineligible to petition for a biological sibling
[See, In re Kwun YuMA 21 1, & N. Dec 67 (1998) and Matter
of Li 121. &N. Dec 700 (1993).

© F21 SPOUSE OFLPR

‘Must have an approved 1-130 petition

; : Tare
Evidence of legal mariage

‘Bona fide husband-wife relationship

Married at least two years at the time of admission to ane aus
ooo F2t F22
«Exempt from general passport requirement — admission

at a port-of-entry does require an immigrant visa

(CHILD OF Fz
© F22. CHILD OFLPR F23

‘© Must have an approved 1-130 pet

BOO!
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007

immigrant Classifications 16,
© Must meet the definition of child at the time of visa
issuance and admission into the United States

‘+ Exempt from general passport requirement — admission
at a port-of-entry does require an immigrant visa

F23 CHILD OF ALIEN CLASSIFIED F21 OR F22

‘© Must accompany or follow to join the principal alien
[F21 or F22]

Does not have to be listed on F21's or F22’s 1-130
petition, but does require its own visa application with
the consulate or embassy

* Cannot be petitioned for directly, is a derivative
classification

© Must meet definitioti ‘of child at»the time ‘of visa
issuance and admission into the United States,

‘+ Exempt from general passport requirement ~ admission [ LAWFUL PERMANENT
at a port-of-entry does require 4n immigrant visa RESIDENT PETITIONER
24 UNMARRIED SON OR DAUGHTER OF LFR
UNMARRIED SON/DAUGHTER |
+ Must have an approved 1-130 petition F24

~ @ F24is at least 21 years of age, otherwise would be
cligible to immigrate as an F22 or F23
+ Exempt from general passport requirement ~ admission
at a port-of-entry does require an immigrant visa

F25 CHILD OF ALIEN CLASSIFIED F24

* Must accompany or follow to join F24

# Does not have to be listed on F24’s 1-130 petition, but
does require its own visa application with the consulate
or embassy “

‘* Cannot be petitioned for directly, is a derivative
classification

‘Must meet definition of child at the time of visa
issuance and admission into the United States

‘+ Exempt from general passport requirement — admission
at'a port-of-entry does require an immigrant visa

On August 6, 2002, Presidetit George W. Bush signed into
Jaw the Child Status Protection Act (CSPA). This law
amerided the INA by changing how an alien is determined
to be a child for purposes of immigrant classification. This
aw changed who can be considered to be a child for thé

00K: Immigrant Classification: u
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
‘purpose of the issuance of visas by the DOS and for
purposes of adjustment of status of aliens by CIS. While
the CSPA did also address the issue of children of asylees
and refugees, that topic is not covered in this workbook.

Immediate Relatives Section 2 of the CSPA addresses the
rules for determining whether certain aliens are immediate
relatives. This section was enacted to prevent a child from
“aging-out” due to CIS processing delays. Specifically, CIS
now uses the date of the filing of a Form I-130, Petition for
Alien Relative, to determine the age of a beneficiary
adjusting as the child of a United States citizen (USC). For
‘example, if a Form I-130 is filed for the child of a USC
when the child is 20, that child will remain eligible for
aduission as an IR-2 or adjustment as an IR-7, even if the
event does not occur until after the child turns 21, provided
‘he child remains unmarried.

Section 2 of the CSPA also amended the INA to allow the
children of individuals who naturalize to remain
classifiable as IR-2s or IR-7s if the parent naturalized while
the child was under 21. CIS now uses the child’s age on the
date of the parent’s naturalization to determine whether the
child will be eligible for immediate relative status. For
example, if a lawful permanent resident (LPR) files a Form
1-130 for her 16-year old daughter and then naturalizes
when the daughter is 20, that daughter will remain eligible
for admission as an IR-2 or adjustment as an IR-7, even if
the adjustment does not occur until after she tums 21,
provided the child remains unmarried.

Section 2 of the CSPA also amended the Act to allow
married children of USCs to use their age on the date of the
termination of their marriage when determining under
which immigrant category to adjust. For example, if a USC
files a Form 1-130 for his 18-year old married son and that
son subsequently obtains a divorce prior to turning age 21,
that son will be classifiable as an IR-2 or as an IR-7, even
if the admission/adjustment does not occur until after he
tums 21, provided he does not remarry.

Preference Categories Section 3 of the CSPA addresses
whether certain aliens will be able to adjust as children of
LPRs even if they are no longer under the age of 21. This
section is different from Section 2 of the CSPA in that CIS
will not be looking at the Form [-130 receipt date to

18

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
determine whether an individual over the age of 21 can
continue to be classified as a child for immigration
purposes. Rather, thé beneficiaty’s age will be locked in on
the date that the priotity date of the Form 1-130 becomes
current (which is the first day of the month that the priority
date became current), less the number of days that the
petition is pending, provided the beneficiary seeks to
acquire the status of an LPR within one year of such
availability. For éxtniple; if a Form 1-130 was filed in 1998
‘when the child was 20, the priority date became available
in September 2002, and the Form 1-130 was tiot
adjudicated until September 2002, the benéficiary’s “age”
when determining preference category would be 20 (the
beneficiary was 24 in 2002, but the petitioi had been
pending for the 4 years), provided the “child” applied for
an immigrant visa ot for adjustment of status within one
year of the priority date becoming available. If, however,
this same Form J-130 had been adjudicated in 2000, the
beneficiary's “age” when deterihining preference category
would have been only 22 (the beneficiary was 24 in 2002
‘when the priority date became available, but the petition
was pending for only 2 years). Itis important to remember
that section 3 of the CSPA requires that the beneficiary
apply for adjustment of status or for an immigrant visa
within one year of the date the priority date became
available. Thus, if a Form I-130 was filed on behalf of the
child of an LPR, the priority date became available 3 years
ago when the beneficiary was still under 21, but that
beneficiary did not apply for adjustment of status within
‘one year of the priority date becoming available and has
since tumed 21, the provisions of the CSPA will not apply
to this beneficiary. ©" * *

‘Unmarried Sons and Daughters of Naturalized Citizens
Section 6 of the CSPA [Link] the'automatic transfer
of preference categories when the parent of af unmarried
son or daughter naturalizes, but also provides the
‘unmarried son or daughter the ability to request that such
transfer not occur. Exatnple 1: In August 2002, the
priority date for unmarried sons and daughters of LPRs was
December 8, 1993 and the priority date for unmarried sons
and daughters of USCs was July 1, 1996: Thus, if a LPR
filed a Form 1-130 for his 24-year old, unmarried French
son and then later naturalized, the son's immigrant
category automatically transfetred from the séoond
preference to the first preference. This was to the

ions

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
advantage of the beneficiary and he most likely did not
prevent such automatic conversion. Example 2: In August
2002, the priority date for Filipino unmarried sons and
daughters of LPRs was December 8, 1993, but the priority
date for Filipino unmarried sons and daughters of USCs
‘was November 1, 1989. Thus, ifa LPR filed a Form 1-130
for his 24-year old, unmarried Filipino son and then later
naturalized, the son would most likely request that the
automatic conversion to the first preference category not
occur because in August of 2002 a visa would have
‘become available to him sooner if he remained in the
second preference category than if he converted to the first
preference category. In this case, the son would continue to
‘be considered a second preference immigrant. This
anomaly continues to be seen today.

‘The CSPA took effect on August 6, 2002. Thus, any
petition that was pending with “Legacy INS” at that time,
as well as any petition currently pending with CIS are
subject to the provisions of the new law. Also, any petition
that hed already been approved by “Legacy INS,” but
where (prior to August 6, 2002] no final action om the
‘beneficiary's application for adjustment of status or for an
immigrant visa had been taken, became subject to the
provisions of the new law (See. Memorandum for
Regional Directors, et al., Subject: The Child Status
Protection Act, dated September 20, 2002.

Section 201 JNA. sets an annual limit for the worldwide
number of Family Sponsored Preference immigrants. Section
202 INA sets an anual limit on the number of visas an
individual country can receive. As a final note on the Family
Sponsored Immigrant process, certain of these aliens are not
subject to these annual limits. They are said to receive their
immigrant visas outside of per country numerical
limitations or are exempt per country numerical limitations.
‘Aliens that are -exempt country limitations receive
classifications of:

FXI for aliens classified F21
FX2 for aliens classified F22
FX3 for aliens classified F23

© These aliens must still qualify as Family Second
Preference immigrants. The only difference will be
their classification,

WORKBOOK: Immi tions

ICE ACADEMY

Fall, 2007
‘+ Aliens classified FX1 and FX2 must be beneficiaries of
approved I-130 petitions.

* Children in the FX2 and FX3 classifications must meet
the definition of “child” at the time of the interview
with consular officer for the immigrant visa and
application for admission to the United States.

‘© Aliens that are exempt country limitations are also
exempt the passport requirement wen iminigrating to
the United States, bitt admission at a port-of-entry docs
require an immigrant visa.

EMPLOYMENT BASED IMMIGRANTS

Many of the provisions for employment based immigration are
based on American businesses’ need for highly skilled,
specially trained personnel to fill sophisticated jobs for which
domestic personnel cannot be found and to fill vacancies for
other current and projected U.S. positions.

‘A petition to classify an alien pursuant to sections 203(6)(1),
203(6)(2), or 203(6)(3) must be filed on an Immigrant
Petition for Alien Workers, Form I-140. An alien, or any
person on behalf of the alien, may file an I-140 visa petition for
classification undér section "203(b)(1)(A) INA a an alien of
extraordinary ability in the sciences, ats, education, business,
or athletics. Such an ‘individual: is" referted to és an
extraordinary alieit (E11). In all othér éaies, the petitione? of
‘the 1-140 must be a U.S. employer. Detailed information
regarding petitions for employment-based immigrants is found
in both 8 CFR. 204.5 and 22 C.F.R. 42.32.

‘THE FILING OR SUBSEQUENT APPROVAL OF AN
1-140 PETITION DOES NOT AUTHORIZE THE
BENEFICIARY TO ENTER OR REMAIN IN THE
UNITED STATES NOR DOES IT GRANT
EMPLOYMENT AUTHORIZATION.

‘© Approval of a petition merely establishes a basis for the
beneficiary to apply for an immigrant visa.

© The approval of a petition does not relieve the alien of the

2
ICE aoe

Fall, 2007
burden of esteblishing to the satisfaction of the consular
officer that the alien is eligible in all respects to receive a
visa.

* An approved petition gives a place in line for a visa behind
others who already have approved petitions for the same
classification,

‘Employment Requirements:

‘+ Job offer must be for permanent, full-time employment at
prevailing U.S. wages.

+ Most of the employment classifications require labor A certification establishes that there are

certification (Form ETA 750) from the Department of wale galled eal reais eto

Labor before the 1-140 petition can be filed. Nias euuiassekan teatro
‘employed and thst employment ofthe
Y When examining labor certifications, the alien, if qualified, will not adversely
‘Department of Labor is checking to see if the affect the wages and working conditions

‘employer created a job description with minimum Similarly employed U.S. workers.

requirements to suit a particular alien and in effect
limit a U.S. job applicant’s chances to fill this
position.

CLASSIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT BASED
IMMIGRANTS:

E11 ALIENS WITH EXTRAORDINARY ABILITY

©, Must have an approved I-140 petition EXTRAORDINARY ABILITY means
Labor certification is not required for alien classified. (yn fepore nalonine athe
“En ‘who ha tento the ery top ofthe eld
* Specific job offer not required, but must be coming to _ofendeavor 8 CFR §204.3(9/2). The
work in alien’s specific field ‘extraordinary abilty can be inthe
Must have sustained national or intemational acclaim “nee. ar, acaon, busines, or
* Extraordinary ability could be demonstrated by
achievements, major internationally recognized awards,
published material, contributions to their respective
field, display of alien’s work at exhibitions, commercial
successes in the performing arts, etc.
‘© Requires passport ~ admission at a port-of-entry does
require an immigrant visa.
% E12 OUTSTANDING PROFESSORS OR
RESEARCHERS
a WORKBOOK, Immigrant Classifications
ICE ACADEMY

Fall, 2007
‘Must have an approved I-140 petition

Labor certification is not required for alien classified

E12

Employment can be in any academic field ACADEMIC FIELD is defined as
Job offer must be in the form of a letter from either a body of specialized knowledge offered for

United States university or institution of higher learning — *¥b at an Lea
offering a tenure-track position or permanent research anne ces sanicaed
position or a permanent research position from a

private employer

Outstanding could be demonstrated by receipt of major
prizes or awards, membership in associations, feee eens eee
published material, or scientific or scholarly research pumrecredt or gor orm of nds or

and contributions tulinted duration, and bs which the
‘© Alien must have three year’ of previous teaching and/or "* employee will ordinarily ave an
esearch experience oe expcition of contin enpoymet
‘+ Requires passport —- admission at a port-of-eniry does termination, 8 nso oo)
require an immigrant visa
113 CERTAIN MULTINATIONAL EXECUTIVES _ EXECUTIVE CAPACITY neon an
atsigment within an organization in
OR MANAGERS hick the employee primar directs
‘he management ofthe organization or a
‘+ Must have an approved 1-140 petition aetna
‘* Labor certification is not required for alien classified _organtzaton; establishes the goa.
aia policies ofthe organization, component
+ Employer must conduct business in two or more ovine: erie de aude in
countries, one of which is the United States, receives only general supervision or
‘¢ Alien’s Previous Work Experience rection fom higher level executives, the
Board of directors, or stockholders ofthe
¥ Must have been employed as a manager or ‘organization
executive. ‘
MANAGERIAL CAPACITY means an
Y Must have one year of this experience within the assignment within an organization in
previous three years. “which te employe primarily: manages
Y Bxperience must be for the same company or a the organtzation, or a department,
subsidiary or affiliate of the company that files the *Wbdlislon, function, or component ofthe
a 7 ‘organization; supervises and controls the
1-140 petition for the alien. ‘Tark of othr superisory, profesional”
‘* Job offer mist be from U.S. employer stating a or managerial enplayees; the eutority to
description ofthe job duties and that the alien willbe hr andre or recommand hse a vel
F i ve posit _as other personnel actions; exercises
7 employed myrrh asin, direction over the day-to-day operations
‘equires passport ~ admission at a port-of-entry does “orig acthity or function for which the
require an immigrant visa ‘employee has authority
8,CER § 204.5012)
work! jons
ICE ACADEMY

Fall, 2007
~ E21 ALIENS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE
PROFESSIONS HOLDING ADVANCED
DEGREES OR ALIENS OF EXCEPTIONAL
ABILITY

‘+ Must have an approved 1-140 petition
+ Labor certification (or a request for a waiver because
employment is deemed to be in the national interest) is
required for alien classified E21
‘+ Job offer must demonstrate that employment requires a
professional holding an advanced degree or equivalent
‘or an alien of exceptional ability
+ ADVANCED DEGREE PROFESSIONS must show
an official academic record of a U.S. advanced degree
or foreign equivalent or official academic record of |
USS. baccalaureate degree or foreign equivalent and
evidence of at least five years of progressive experience
in the specialty
* ALIENS OF EXCEPTIONAL ABILITY must
demonstrate three of the following:
‘* an official academic record showing degree,
diploma, or award in area of exceptional
ability
‘© evidence that alien has at least ten years of
full-time experience
‘+ license or certification to practice the
profession
‘* commands a salary or remuneration for
service which demonstrates exceptional
ability
‘* membership in professional associations
‘* recognition for achievements and significant
contributions to the industry or field
‘© Requires passport — admission at a port-ofentry does,
require an immigrant visa

© E31 SKILLED WORKERS

‘Mast have an approved 1-140 petition

Labor certification is required for alien classified E31
Job must require two years of training or experience
‘The determination that a position requires two years of
training or experience is guided by Department of
WORKBOO!
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007

ADVANCED DEGREE means ary
United States academic or professional
degree ora foreign equivalent degree
above that of baccalaureate. A United
States baccalaureate degree o «foreign
equivalent degree followed by atleast five
‘ears of progressive experience inthe
specialty shall be considered the
equivalent ofa master’s degree. Ifa
doctoral degree is customarily required
‘by the specialty, the alien must have a
United States doctorate ora foreign
equivalent degree.

‘EXCEPTIONAL ABILITY in the
sciences, arts, or business, means a
degree of expertise significantly above
‘that ordinarily encountered inthe
sciences, ats, or Business.

PROFESSION means one ofthe
‘occupations listed in section 101(@)(32)
Of the Act, as well as any occupation for
‘which a United States baccalaureate
degree or it foreign equivalent is the
‘minimum requirement for entry into the
‘occupation.

8 CFR § 204502)

Under §101(a)(32) of the Act, the tem
profession includes, but i not limited to,
the following occupations: architects,
engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons,
and teachers in elementary, secondary
schools, colleges, academies, or
seminaries.

SKILLED WORKER means an alien whois
capable, a he tne of petitioning for hs
classification. of performing sled labor

(requiring last 0 years taining or
experience). not ofa tenporary or seasonal
‘nature for which qualified workers are not

‘Pailable i he United State.

[Link]§204.502
um
Labor minimum job requitements
* The J-140 petition must be accompanied by evidence
that the alien has the education, training, ot experience
requirements
© Requires passport -- admission at a port-of-entry does
‘require an immigrant visa

‘» E32 PROFESSIONAL

‘PROFESSIONAL means «qualfied
alien vho holds at least a United States

‘© Must have an approved I-140 petition ‘accalaureate degree ora foreign

© Labor certification is required for alien classified E32 “quivalent degree and who is a member

‘Job inust requiré at the minimum, a baccalaureate of the profession.
degree ACER § 2045000
The 1-140 petition must be ticcompanied by evidence
that the alien holds a United States baccalaureate
degree or a foreign equivalent
* There are no provisions for establishing a combination
of education and experience that is the equivalent of a
baccalaureate degree
+ The alien must be « member of the professions
‘© Requires passport — admission at a port-of-entry does
require an immigrant visa

~ EW3 UNSKILLED WORKER (OTHER WORKER) UNSKILLED OR OTHER WORKER
‘means a qualified alien who is capable, at

the time of petitioning for this

‘Mast have an approved I-140 petition eee

Labor certification is required for alien classified EW3 “Tabor (requiring es han fvo years

Job requires less than two years of traning or ‘abning or experience), not ofa

experience * sexporary oy sesonal nae, wck
‘© The J-140 petition amst be accompanied by evidence "Vet workers ar not available in the

that the alien mec any euation, taining, or

experienos requirements CER 82045010)

‘© Requires passport -- admission at a port-of-entry does
require an immigrant visa

EMPLOYMENT CREATION IMMIGRANTS:

Employment’ creation aliens are classified ‘as fifth preference
employment based immigrants. ‘This prefetence is not really a

“job offer” preference because quilification is based on the .
amount of an investment in the United States and not whether a

job is offered tovan alien. Employment creation immigrants [Link],

WORKBOOK: Immigrant Classifications 25
ICE ACADEMY

Fall, 2007
Approval of a petition merely establishes a basis for the
beneficiary to apply for an immigrant visa.

The approval of a petition does not relieve the alien of the
burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the consular officer
‘that the alien is eligible in all respects to receive a visa

SPECIAL IMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATIONS

‘The R visa program was created by Congress in 1990. The intent
was to provide visas to aliens to overcome shortages in the United
States among ministries, nunneries and other religious
professionals. In 1998 approximately 11,000 aliens received “R” }
‘Visas. According to a 1999 General Accounting Office (GAO)
report, federal investigators had discovered R visa fraud rings in
‘the 1990's involving churches and other religious institutions
‘based in Colombia, Fiji and Russia. The mastermind of the 1993
‘World Trade Center bombing, Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman, had an
R visa. So did four Palestinian men who worked for the Holy Land
Foundation for Relief and Development and the Islamic
Association for Palestine —both Muslim charities that the State
Department has linked to the terrorist organization Hamas. The
1999 GAO report was not kind to either Legacy INS nor the State
Department, citing lax oversight and an inability too quantify the
‘rue extent of fraud in the religious worker visa program.

From 1999 to 2004, about 106,000 people were admitted to the
United States using both nonimmigrant and immigrant visas for
"religious workers." Since 9/11, the mumber of these admissions
‘has continued to increase. Between 1992 and 1998, there were
about 42,000 such admissions [nonimmigrant and immigrant
admissions combined]. The largest number were foreign nationals
from Mexico (5,198), India (4,666), Canada (4,357), and Britain
(3,393). Immigration authorities do not maintain statistics for
admissions by religion. However, in the past three years, records
indicate that more than 1,000 holders of religious worker visas
from predominantly Muslim countries were granted admission;
topping the list for these countries were Egypt (270), Indonesia
(173), and Pakistan (113).

In February 2003, the U.S. Attomey's Office in New York began
the process of prosecuting Muslim religious leader Muhammed
Khalil, his son Asim, and three other individuals who were
charged with submitting false “R” visa applications on behalf of
more than 200 Middle Eastern aliens. The ring charged up to

t Classi 28
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
‘$8,000 per person. According to unsealed indictments, Khalil’s
‘mosque sponsored more than 200 applicants seeking “R” visas,
claiming they were religious workers who taught the Koran,
Islamic history, and the Arabic language. According to the
criminal complaint, Khalil supplied fake names ("Amjad Hussain,”
"Mohammad Amjad," "Amjad Ali Chaudhry"); fake degrees (from
the University of Punjab); and fake religious training certificates
(for the "Nazra Quran Course"). During the investigation Khalil
made statements to an undercover witness proclaiming allegiance
‘with Osama bin Laden and fugitive Taliban leader Mullah
‘Mohammed Omar. "Hopefully," Khalil reportedly mused, “another
attack in the United States will come shortly." [See, “The
Religious Worker Visa Scam” authored by Michelle Malkin in
‘World Net Daily on February 12, 2003]. In September 2004, a
‘New York court convicted Khalil of eight criminal counts {See,
Indictment, U.S. v. Khalil, et al. (SDNY 03-CR-289) Mar. 10,
2003],

In the September 2005 issue of “Fraiud Digest,” the Depaitment of
State announced the findings of a Benefits Fraud Assessment to
measure the integrity of specific nonimmigrant end immigrant visa
petitions/applications. Phase one of that assessment substantiated
that immigrant worker classifications have a high degree of fraud.
‘The Office of Fraud detection and National Security reviewed 220
religious worker petitions, of which 72 cases (33%) resulted in a
finding of fraud, defined as “willful misrepresentation or
falsification of material fact.” Focusing in on the fraudulent cases
the study found that 44% of the cages involved religious
institutions that were not bona fide and 54% of the cases involved
the submission or fraudulent information andlor fraudulent
documents. While most of these petitions are legitimate, you must
nevertheless be on your guard to spot instances of fraud and
misuse of this immigrant category. ;

To qualify as a special immigrant religious worker, an alien must
be a member of a religious denomination that has a non-profit
religious organization in the United States. The alien must have
‘been a member of this religious dentoriination for at east two
years before applying for admission to the United States. The alien
‘must be entering the United States to work:

+ Asaminister or priest of the religious denomination;

+ Ina professional capacity in a religious vocation or
‘occupation for the religious organization (a professional
capacity means that a U.S. baccalaureate degree or foreign
equivalent is required to do this job); or

WORKBOOK: Immigrant Classifications 29

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
+ Inareligions vocation or occupation for the religious
organization or its nonprofit affiliate. (A religious vocation
‘means a calling or devotion to religious life. Taking vows
ccan prove that you have a calling to religious life. A
religious occupation is an activity devoted to traditional
religious functions. Examples of religious occupations
include (bat are not limited to) cantors, missionaries, and
religious instructors.)

‘The alien, or alien’s employer must submit Form 1-360 (Petition
for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant). The
application must be filed at the California Service Center,
regardless of where the alien lives or works. ‘The alien must
submit:

+ Proof that the religious organization qualifies as a non-
profit organization

+ A letter from an official of the religious organization inthe
United States:

The letter should establish that the alien has been a
‘member of the denomination for two years, and that
the alien has at least two years of experience in his,
religious vocation or occupation.

© Ifthe alien is a minister, the letter should establish
‘hat the alien has been authorized to perform
religious duties in general and should specify which
Guties the alien is authorized to perform.

© Ifthealien is a religious professional, the letter
should establish that the alien has a United States
baccalaureate degree or the foreign equivalent that
is required for the alien’s religious profession. The
alien must also submit an official academic record.

+ If the alien is applying to work in the United States in
another religious vocation or occupation, the letter should
‘establish that the alien is qualified to work in that religious
‘vocation or occupation. For instance, ifthe alien is
applying to work as a nun or a monk, the alien would need
to provide evidence that he/she is a nun or a monk,

+ If the alien is applying to work in the United States in a
‘non-ministerial or non-professional capacity for a religious
‘organization affiliated with a religious denomination, the
letter should establish how the religious organization is

KBOO!

immigrant Clas:

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
affiliated with the denomination.

+ The letter should also detail how the alien will be carrying

on the work of a minister, or how the alien will be paid if
the alien is working in a professional or other religious
capacity. The letter should indicate thatthe alien will not
‘be dependent upon supplementary income (from a second
job) or charity (funds solicited forthe alien’s support).

+ SDI MINISTER OF RELIGION

* Must have an approved 1-360 petition

‘ 1-360:must be accompanied by evidence that the alien
hhas the authorization to conduct religious worship and
perform other duties of the clergy

+ Requires passport — admission at a port-of entry does,
require an immigrant visa

% SRI CERTAIN RELIGIOUS WORKERS

‘+ Must be the beneficiary of an approved I-360 petition

‘1-360 must be accompanied by evidence that the alien
has the requisite membership in the denomination and
‘work experience

‘+ Professional workers and other workers must
obtain permanent resident status through
immigration or adjustment of status on or before
October 1, 2008 in order to immigrate under this
section of the Act [Per the Act “To ainend the
‘Immigration and Nationality Act to extend for ati
additional 5 years the special immigrant religious

‘worker program” (Public Law 108-99 — 10/15/2003)],

‘© The sunset date above does not apply to those

individuals who enter solely for the purpose of carrying

on the vocation of a minister of a religious
denomination i.e, $D1 immigrants..

‘© Requires passport - admission at a port-of-entry does
require an immigrant visa

MINISTER means am individual iy
authorized by a recognized religous
denomination to conduct religious
worship and to perfarm other dies
usually performed by authorized members
ofthe clergy ofthat religion. In all cases,
there must be a reasonable connection
between the activities performed and the
religious calling ofthe minister, The
term does no include a lay preacher not
‘tutored to perform such dies,

8 CER § 204.5(m)(2)

PROFESSIONAL CAPACITY meant
‘an activity na religious vocation or
‘occupation for which the minimum "*

United Sites baccalaureate degr
foreign equivalent degree is regia

RELIGIOUS OCCUPATION means an
ety which relates to atrational
religious fnction. Examples of
indiyatuals in religious occupations
Imelude, but are not limited to, urgicat
‘workers, religious instructors, religious
counselors, cantors,catechists, workers
In religious hospitals or religious health
‘care facilities, missionaries, religious
translators, or religious broadcasters.
This group does not include janitors,
iaintenance workers, clerks, fund
raisers, of persons solely involved in the
solicitation of danations.

RELIGIOUS VOCATION means a calling
to religious life evidenced by the
lemonsiration of commitment practiced inthe
‘religious denomination, such asthe waking of
‘oie. Braiples of inviuals with a
religious vocation inclu, but are not ited
"ro, fans, monk, and religious brothers end
sisters,

SLCER 6 204.502)

WORKBOOK: Immigrant Classifications 3

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
* DVI DIVERSITY IMMIGRANTS

Diversity immigrant vises are intended to provide an immigration
opportunity for persons from countries other than the main source
countries of immigration to the United States, and those aliens who
are not eligible to immigrate either on the employment basis or on
‘the family-sponsored relationship. ‘The law states that no diversity
visas shall be provided for countries from which during the
previous five years there were more than 50,000 immigrants in
the Family-Sponsored and Employment-Based visa categories.
Because there is a separate determination made prior to each
lottery application period, the countries that do not qualify are
subject to change from one year to the next. The diversity
program makes 55,000 permanent residence visas available each
year to eligible aliens. No one country can receive more than
3,850 diversity visas in any one year.

‘The threshold qualifications for a DV visa application are set very
low. ‘The DV applicant need only be a native of e low-admission
foreign state, have a high schoo education or its equivalent, or in
the alternative, have 2 years of work experience (in a occupation
requiring at least 2 years training or experience) within 5 years of
applying for the visa,

When the DV visa applicant “hits the jackpot,” his/her spouse and
children are also qualified to immigrate to the U.S. In fact, both
spouses can register for the program (so long as they meet
eligibility criteria) which increases the odds of “winning.”

we OK: Immigrant Classificatior
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
XII. MISCELLANEOUS IMMIGRANTS

‘There are certain aliens who can become Lawful Permanent
Residents without having to obtain immigrant visas or needing
to have a petition filed on theit behalf. These aliens can arrive
at a port of entry, and in the case of an $13 also adjust status in
the United States, aid immigrate to the United States without
‘the need of being the beneficiary of an approved petition or
immigrant visa. ‘This process, outside the normal immigration
‘path fo permanent residency, occurs a8 specifically described
in both the INA and the Code of Federal Regulations. The
status of these aliens is recorded on a Form I-181_

(Memorandum of Creation of Record of Lawful Permanent = = peso vigereee CLAS ON ek
3. ‘What is the function of the National Visa Center?
we i _ en |
2 yg Kio" ao SO
four y *
4. List the general immigrant admission requirements.
, x8 2
ees apo gates
= ‘What are priority dates?

10.

uu.

12.

wo

Issuance of an immigrant visa by a consular officer overseas guarantees
admission of the alien. ¢ °

Generally, the maximum period of yalidity ofan immigrant visa is six
months,

Certain classes of immigrants may receive an immigrant visa within the
United States,

Only aliens over the age of 18 me appear personally before a consular

officer. a 6 ay

‘Most Permanent Resident cards have validity dates often years.
Deve 1s8

An lien is presuméd to be a nonimmigrant unless he or she has an

Snmalgant vin toga othe United States,

Aliens are issued Form I-551 on the date they are admitted as immigrants.

wee ¢¥

RKBOOK: Immigrant Classifications. M4

a

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007

a
‘TRAINING EXERCISE
UNIT2

IDENTIFY THE IMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION

J
v

V
.
/
/
“

/

WORKBOO!

A citizen of Korea is seeking admission to the United States for permanent

residence to join her husband of yee who naturalized three years ago.
NU-\

‘The Israeli mother of a 26-year old United States citizen is coming to reside

Pemmaneatly inthe United Stites, gS

A citizen of Belize seeks admission to live with his U.S. citizen wife. They
‘were married last month in London while she was on vacation.

ah
‘The Japwiese wife ofa U.S, citizen secks to reside perm eiy in the United
States while her husband completes his tour of duty with the U.S. Navy in
Japan. They were married three years ago. a

An orphan was adopted in San Salvador by two U.S.
EI Salvador to find a child to adopt. ques

itizens who traveled to

‘An 18 year old citizen of Poland divorced her husband two months ago.
Today she is applying for admission at Chicago to reside permanently
with her parents who were naturalized last year. yu. L-

A12 year old citizen of Norway is seeking admission to reside permanently
with his newly married mother and his U.S. citizen stepfather who filed the
petition for his new stepson. cee

A9 year old alien orphan was adopted last year by a U.S. citizen who was in
France on business. Although his wife was not present for the adoption, she
is looking forward to welcoming the child into their home

w
“The 58 year old Swedish widow of a U.S. citizen applying for admission.
‘They had been married for thirteen years. Two months ago when he died,
they were celebrating the one year anniversary of his naturalization.
Sue
ps

‘What is the definition of stepchild found in section 101(b)(1) INA?

Immigrant Classifications

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007

45
11. Under what circumstances would an immigrant be admitted as e conditional
permanent resident?

Boe

WY PDS

man
wos
12. ‘Whats the progedure for having an ain 's conditional permanent resident ~
status removed?
0
ne a0 ary ye

4y
13. What form is used to petition for most alien relatives to immigrate to the United

States?
k xP
.

14, What is the definition of unimarried found in 101(a)(39) INA?
& ue’

15. What was the purpose of the Immigration Marriage Fraud Amendments?
wr oes
oe? ee oo
16. What is Form 1-360?
we wou
i rr

17. List requirements of a use citizen petitioner who wishes to petition for his or

her parent.
ae oe
nie Ww
rn
{e) OK: It
ICE ACADEMY

Fall, 2007
TRAINING EXERCISE
UNIT 3
Section A.

IDENTIFY THE IMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION

1. Michael, a 20 year old citizen of Peru, is applying for admission. Michael’s
mother, a U.S. citizen, petitioned for her married son to immigrate.

¢?*

2. Michael’s wife, Elizabeth, is applying for admission as an immigrant with
‘Michael. She received her immigrant visa as a rider on his petition.

Qe
23

aA

3. A.25 year old citizen of Finland is applying for admission to reside with her U.S.
citizen parents. She is still grieving over the death of her husband six months
ago.

p

4, ‘James, a 19-year old citizen of Argentina, is applying for admission to reside
‘permanently with his 30 year old U.S. citizen brother who petitioned for him.

e uy

5. James has a 3 year old son, Patrick, who will immigrate to the United States two
‘months after James immigrates.

en3

6. Ramona, a US. citizen, met some friends in Costa Rica. She also met Jose, a
Costa Rican whom she married eighteen months ago.

Ue -\

WORK! Immigrant Clas: a
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
7. At the same time she filed Jose’s petition, she filed an I-130 for Jose's daughter
lena who is 20 years old.

he >

Sara immigrated seven months ago as an unmarried daughter of a U.S. citizen.
‘Today her four year old son artives to join his mother.

ye

9. How old must a U.S. citizen be to petition for the following?

pact,
wet
spouse? waea

aan On

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
TRAINING EXERCISE
UNIT3
Section B

IDENTIFY THE IMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION

Sam is a Lawful Permanent Resident. Years ago he was on a business trip in
‘Mexico when he met Claudia, They have been married for three years.

Claudia has a 10 year old daughter who is riding on her mother’s petition.

pe

Four years ago, Eva immigrated to the United States as a sister of a U.S.
citizen. ‘Today she wishes to petition for Femendo, her husband of
‘three years, who is finally able to join her in the United States.

Ft
‘Charles has been a Lawful Permanent Resident for 18 months. He was

visiting family in Kenya where he met Rita. He proposed to het before he
left for the U.S, and she accepted. Today he filed a petition for her.

ines’ ee =
Jackie, a Lawful Permanent Resident, petitioned for Paul, her 28 year old
bachelor son.

Fry FHF ot

Paul’s 9 year old adopted son is accompanying him and is riding on
Paul's petition.
& 4 x ae

Diana is a Lawful Permanent Resident. She is so impressed with schools in
the U.S. that she has petitioned for her Australian children to immigrate to
be enrolled. Her Australian hubby wishes to remain in Australia for at least,
‘one more year to complete some business. Consider Diana’s 17 year old son
Andrew.

BOO! 9

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
8. Andrew has a twin brother who immigrates with him,
ee

9. Cesar and Alice, both Lawful Petmanent Residents, are thrilled that their 18
year oid son, Pedro, and his wife, Patricia, wish to immigrate to the United

States. Consider Pedro. y
oie |

10. Consider Patricia.

wp out

reve

Tee
4

11. _Inorder to be classified as a family second preference (F2_), the alien
beneficiary must be related to whorn?

pa

12, What does it mean to say that a country is oversubscribed?

13. What is automatic conversion?

Chara’

we sb
ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007 E

Immigrant Classificatioy
“TRAINING EXERCISE
UNIT 4

IDENTIFY THE IMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION

1

BOO.

‘The University of Michigan petitioned for Harry, # German national, to immigrate
to the United States to continue his research. Harry’s expertise lies in the field of
genetic cloning. Over the past twelve years ie has written several articles for
‘medical and scientific journals with an international circulation.

t
Laura was petitioned for by the Anderson Bakery as a wedding cake decorator.
‘They require their decorators to have three years of experience. She has seven
years of experience including her three yeat apprenticeship at @ premier culinary
institute in London. _
&

Amartya Sen filed a petition to immigrate to the United States. Highlighting his
‘career as an economist, he published a book entitled “Poverty and Famines; An
Essay on Entitlement and Deprivation”, taught at Harvard University, and
recently won the Nobel Prize in Economics for his work with welfare economics.

“
‘Marco has accepted a job with Pilgrim Pride in Tyler, Texas, processing chickens.
He has already met the company’s six month experience requirement.
1%
oe
‘Antonio has been the Executive Vice President of advertising for Daimler
Chrysler in Germany for six years. His division has developed several
Incrative advertising campaigns that increased profits for Daimler Chrysler.
‘Six months ago, Antonio was informed that Daimler Chrysler would be

transferring him permanently to their office in New York to coordinate similar
advertising projects

a1

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
6. Antonio, along with his wife and 12 year old daughter were issued immigrant
‘visas three weeks ago. Antonio has several business arrangements to finish
before he leaves for the U.S. He encouraged his wife and daughter to go
to the U.S. without him for the sole purpose of enrolling her in school so that she
‘wouldn't fall behind her classmafes. What is the daughter's classification if

admissible?
y 2
f . ¢ ;
J So
Ky Log
7. ‘The Duval County school system in Jacksonville, FL petitioned for Greta to
immigrate to the U.S. as a Special Education teacher. Greta has a

Bachelor's degree in Special Education and has been a Special Education teacher
for the past four years.

v
qo

8. Three years after she immigrated to the U.S., Greta married her Colombian
boyfriend Thomas, and petitipned for him to live with her in Jacksonville.

ss Lee

9. Alex received his Masters degree in Investment Banking in 1980. Four years Jater
be graduated from law sthol and today specializes in corporate law. He has
‘veen an asset to the law firm he works for because he can speak six languages.
Merrill Lynch in Chicago, IL petitioned for Alex to work as en investment
Jawyer in its legal division.
v

A

10, Which of the aliens in questions 1-9 require a passport 10 immigrate tothe United
‘States? 7 we
: 5 :
Rinne vce | y
eo vv
LL. Whats labor certification?

L 8

Ke!

immigrant Classifications.

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007 i
‘TRAINING EXERCISE
UNIT 5

‘Anna and her husband went to the American Embassy to cbtain their immigrant visas that
‘were available, She qualified because she is the sister of a U.S. citizen. They do not
immigrate immediately because Anna is pregnant and her doctor has advised her against
traveling. Anna gives birth to a son one month after she picks up her immigrant visa.
‘She and her husband depart for the United States three months after the child was born.
‘When they arrive in the United States:

1. What classification if any, will be given to Anna’s husband?

gee
mI

2. What documents, if any, does her husband need to immigrate to the United States?
Roost wer
3. What classification if any, will be given to Anna’s son?

4, What documents if any, does Anna’s son need to immigrate to the United States?

qo

‘Two years later, Anna is pregnant again, She decides to have her child in her homeland
becauise it provides socialized medicine. She is outside of the United States for four
months before her daughter is born. Anna does not return to the United States with her
daughter for six months.

5, When they arrive in the United States: What clissification if any, will be given to
Anna’s daughter? 4

6. What documents, if any, does the daughter need to immigrate to the United States?

Cert >
OK: | rant Clas

ICE ACADEMY
Fall, 2007
7. How much work experience does an individual in a religious vocation need to
immigrate to the U.S.?

S
S
ne

es
8. Which Special Immigrant classifications require labor certification?
A
os
wer
9. What is Form I-18] used for? &
uu 5
Agi ®
10. What documents does an alien who wishes to be classified $13 need to immigrate to

the United States?

a a

Nip

Fall, 2007
‘TRAINING EXERCISE
UNIT6

Brother John, from England, decided to start his own religion, he has been.
working on creating his congregation for one year. Today, he is still the only
member and wants to try his luck building up a congregation in the US. Is he
dligible for a SD1? Why or why not? oS

yo ae os

2. Does an alien born in Canada with 50% American Indian blood need an
immigrant vise? What proof must the Canadian present at admission?
‘What classification will the alien receive at admission into the U.S. and
‘how will this classification be recorded?
yo SND
3. May anonimmigrant present in the U.S. apply to adjust their status to that
ofaLPR?
4, On what form will he make his application?
5. Must they have an approved ‘petition first? If yes, what?
“4
6. Can this alien have entered the U.S. without inspection before applying for
adjustment?
WO
7. At what age must all LPRs register with the DHS?
8. At what age must all aliens be in possession of required documents to prove their
status in the US? e
RKBOOK: Immigrant Classifications 55
ICE ACADEMY

Fall, 2007

You might also like

CSRA Precludes Jurisdiction in DHS Case

PDF

No ratings yet

CSRA Precludes Jurisdiction in DHS Case
7 pages

USCIS FOIA/PA Processing Guide

PDF

No ratings yet

USCIS FOIA/PA Processing Guide
262 pages

Alabama Voting Rights Compliance Review

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Voting Rights Compliance Review
3 pages

Hazleton Immigration Ordinance Case

PDF

No ratings yet

Hazleton Immigration Ordinance Case
347 pages

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)

PDF

No ratings yet

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)
282 pages

Valle del Sol v. Whiting Appeal Summary

PDF

No ratings yet

Valle del Sol v. Whiting Appeal Summary
46 pages

Alabama Certiorari Denial Implications

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Certiorari Denial Implications
42 pages

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)

PDF

No ratings yet

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)
87 pages

Understanding FOIA: Access and Impact

PDF

No ratings yet

Understanding FOIA: Access and Impact
38 pages

Permanent Injunction on S.B. 1070 Sections

PDF

No ratings yet

Permanent Injunction on S.B. 1070 Sections
1 page

Alabama GED Policy Manual

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama GED Policy Manual
9 pages

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc
77 pages

Petition for En Banc Rehearing

PDF

0% (1)

Petition for En Banc Rehearing
27 pages

Alabama Appeals Court Writ Denial Analysis

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Appeals Court Writ Denial Analysis
3 pages

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Petition for Rehearing En Banc
116 pages

Religious Exemption Concerns in Alabama

PDF

No ratings yet

Religious Exemption Concerns in Alabama
2 pages

DOJ Concerns on Alabama Education Law

PDF

No ratings yet

DOJ Concerns on Alabama Education Law
4 pages

Alabama Appeals Court Ruling on H.B. 56

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Appeals Court Ruling on H.B. 56
3 pages

Compliance with Alabama Immigration Act

PDF

No ratings yet

Compliance with Alabama Immigration Act
6 pages

ICE Directive on Alien Return Policy

PDF

No ratings yet

ICE Directive on Alien Return Policy
3 pages

Immigration Detainer Notice of Action

PDF

No ratings yet

Immigration Detainer Notice of Action
3 pages

Alabama Immigration Act Compliance Memo

PDF

No ratings yet

Alabama Immigration Act Compliance Memo
6 pages

Footer menu

Back to top

About
About Scribd, Inc.
Slideshare
Join our team!
Contact us

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Social

Instagram Instagram

Facebook Facebook

Pinterest Pinterest

Get our free apps

About
About Scribd, Inc.
Slideshare
Join our team!
Contact us

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices

Social

Instagram Instagram

Facebook Facebook

Pinterest Pinterest

Get our free apps

Documents

Language :
English

Copyright © 2026 Scribd Inc.

We take content rights seriously. Learn more in our FAQs or report infringement here .

We take content rights seriously. Learn more in our FAQs or report infringement here .

Language :
English

Copyright © 2026 Scribd Inc.

