

ICE M-69, "Law of Arrest" (January 1993)

-->

Explore

EXPLORE BY INTERESTS

Career & Money
Business Biography & History
Entrepreneurship
Leadership & Mentoring
Money Management
Time Management

Personal Growth
Happiness
Psychology
Relationships & Parenting
Religion & Spirituality
Self-Improvement

Politics & Current Affairs
Politics
Society

Science & Tech
Science
Tech

Health & Fitness
Fitness
Nutrition
Sports & Recreation
Wellness

Lifestyle
Arts & Languages
Fashion & Beauty
Food & Wine
Home & Garden
Travel

Entertainment
Celebrity Biography & Memoir
Pop Culture

Biographies & History
Biography & Memoir
History

Fiction
Children’s & YA
Classic Literature
Contemporary Fiction
Historical Fiction
LGBTQ Fiction
Mystery, Thriller & Crime
Romance
Science Fiction & Fantasy

BROWSE BY CONTENT TYPE

Books

Audiobooks

News & Magazines

Sheet Music
Search
Upload Sign in Join
close user settings menu

Options

Join
Sign In
Upload

ICE M-69, "Law of Arrest" (January 1993)
Uploaded by J Cox
Rating and Stats
0.0 ( 0 )
Document Actions
Download

Share or Embed Document

Sharing Options
Share on Facebook, opens a new window
Share on Twitter, opens a new window
Share on LinkedIn
Share by email, opens mail client
Embed

Description: For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007
View More

For more information (and other ICE training materials), please see: www.scribd.com/doc/22789007
Copyright: Attribution Non-Commercial (BY-NC)
Download as PDF, TXT or read online from Scribd
Flag for inappropriate content

﻿U.S.
Department of Justice

Immigration and Naturalization Service

THE LAW OF ARREST, SEARCH. AND SEIZURE FOR IMMIGRATION OFFICERS

M~9

January ]993 Edition

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

IMMIGRATION AND NA'l"IJRALIZA.TION SERVICE

THIS MATERIAL IS THE PROPER'lY OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATORAUZATION SERVICE. NEITHER IT NOR ITS CONTENTS MAY BE DISSEMINATED onrsms THE INS WITHOUT PRIOR CONSENT.

U.S. Department of Justice

Immigration and Naturalization Service

THE LAW OF ARREST, SEARCH, AND SEIZURE FOR IMMIGRATION OFFICERS

M-69

January 1993 Edition

OmCIAL USE ONLY IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE

THIS MATERIAL IS THE PROPERTY OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE. NEITHER IT NOR ITS CONTENTS MAY BE DISSEMINATED OUTSIDE THE INS WITHOUT PRIOR WRI1TEN CONSENT. SINCE TI1IS PROPERTY IS INTENDED FOR INTERNAL USE ONLY, IT IS ALSO SUBJECT TO THE A1TORNEY-CLZENT PRIVILEGE, AND ALL OTHER GOVERNMENTAL PRIVILEGES

Immigration and Naturalization Service Office of the General Counsel

425 Eye St., N.W. Rm. 6100 Washington, D.C. 20536

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: '11IeLawof Arrest, Search, and Seizwefor Immigration OjJicers

TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUcnON ' .•.•.•.••........••.•.. , .....•.•. ' .... , .. , , ,

CHAPTF.iR I

SOURCES 017 AUTHORITY, . , ••.•.. , .. , , .•. , .. , .....••..••.•• I-I

A. THE FOURTH AMENDMENT .•.. " •••. , .. ', ....•. " .. ' 1

B. THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT. , .. , , ... , ... , 2

C. OTHBR STATUTORY SOURCES OF AUTHORITY ••. , .....•.. , 4

1. Title 18 of the United States Code . .. ....•...... .. ~ .• , 4

2. Title ]9 of the United States Code: Customs Cross-Designation • .. 4

3, Title. 21 of the United Stales Code: DEA Cross-Designation . , .. , 4

4. Local Law •.•••......•.• , • . . . . • . . • . • • • • • • . . .. 4

D. ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS ..••...........•...... 4

CHAPTER II

QUESTIONING, INVESTIGATIVE DETENTION, AND ARREST

II - 1

A. QUESTIONING AND DETF.NTION NOT AMOUNTING TO

ARREST ' ...•..•.... , ' .. ,. " .

1. Questioning at the Border and Functional Equiva/e,nt of the

Border •.....•.. , ..... ".,.,.,', "., " 1

2. Non-Border Consensual Encounters , , , , " 2

3. NOll-Border Detentive Encounters , .....• , , , ., 2

B. ARREST ... , .. , ... , .. , •.•.. ,' ... ,.', " 3

1. Administrative Arrest (Civii Arrest) .......•.. , .....•.. , 4

H. Authority alld Purpose of Administrative Arrest 4

b. Warnings Required Following Administrative Arrest ....• 5

2. Criminal Arrest . . • • . . . . . ... . . , . . , . • . . , . . , . , . . . ., 5

a. Authority , . , . • • • • • . . . , • . . , . . . • , . . . . . . . . .. 5

b. Use of Force to Effect an Arrest .,............... 7

c. Miranda Wlimillgs Following Criminal Arrest . . . . . . •. , 8

d. Detention Of Material Witnesses in Criminal Cases ..... , 9

For OmeiaL Use OnLy

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of A rrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

CHAPTER III

SEARCHES AND SEIZURES .•............•.•... ,............ III - 1

A. USE OF SEARCH WARRANTS ...................•..

1. Rule 41 Warrant.>: Criminal Violations •....•..........•.

2. Blackie's and Barlow's Warrants: Civil/Administratjve

vioiauons ..,................,...,.,...,.:.... 2

a. Blackic's Warrants 2

b. Barlow's Warrants. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

3. Execution of the Search Warrant ,............. 4'

B. . WARRANTLESS SEARCHES AND SEIZURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4

I. Search Incident to Lawfu! Arrest . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . .. 4

a. Search of Vehicle Incident to Arrest •..... , .. , , , . .. 5

b. Search of Premises Incident to Arrest . . . . . . . . . , . . .. 5

2. Consent Searches , . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . " 5

3. Exigent Circumstances .. , , , '. 6

a. HOI Pursuit , , 6

b. Arrest ill a Public Place ,.............. 7

4. Detention Facility Searches , , . . . . . .. . . .. 7

a. Searches of Detainee's Cell , . . . . . . .. 7

b. Mail Searches 7

c. Searches of Detainees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . , . . . .. 8

5. Border Searches . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . ,. 8

a. Searches 01 International Borders ' . . . . . . . .. 8

b. <Extended Border Search '................ 9

c. Functional Equivalent , . . . .. 9

d. Ellfly of Lands Within 25 Miles of Border 10

6. 01ec/points. . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

'I. Vehicle SlOPS and Searches .. ,..................... 11

8. Inventory Searches Of Seized Vehicles ,.... 13

9. Container Searches , ..................•. 13

10. Other Exceptions to the warram Requirement •..•. , .. , 14

a. Evidence in Plain View . . . . •. ....•••......... 14

b. Open Fields . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

c. Canine "Sniffs' ...•................• , . . 15

C. ADMINISTRATIVE SUBPOENAS , " 16

For Official Use Only

iii

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The l,(JW of Arrest, Search, and Seizurefor Immigration Q/jicers

CHAPTER IV

SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF CONVEYANCE IV - I

CHAPTER V

INS UNDERCOVER OPERATIONS , V - J

CHAPTER VI

RELATIONS WITH LOCAL AND STATE ENfORCEMENT AGENCIES ... , .. VI - 1

CHAPTER VII

DETAINERS VII - 1

CHAPTER vnr

POSSII3LE CONSEQUENCES OF IMPROPER

ACTIONS BY IMMIGRATION OFFICERS , . , .......•.•.• VIII

A. EXCLUSION OF EVIDENCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

1. Criminal Prosecutions . . . . . . . , . • . . .•.... : . . . • • . • .. 1

2. Administrative (Civil) Proceedings •............•.•.•.. 1

3. EJJect on Validity of Proceedings ••.....•......••.••.. I

B. CIVIL LIABILITY 2

I. Personal Liability of Federal Agellts .........,......... 2

2. Liability of the United States for Money Damages: . . . . . . . . .. 3

C. CRIMINAL LIABILITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

D. DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

CHAPTER IX

REPRESENTATION OF INS EMPLOYEES SUED IN

THEIR INDIVIDUAL CAPACITIES •.....•.. , , , IX - I

A. OEPARTMENT POLICY ...•.•.•.. , . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I

B. PROCEDURE FOR REQUES'I1NG REPRESENTATION. . . . . . . . .. J

C. ATIORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE .......•............. , .. 2

D. INDEMNIFICATION POLICY ,................. 2

Fur Official Use Only

iv

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M~69: The Lawof Arrest, Search. and Seizure ftn: Immigration Officers

E, PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING INDEMNIFICATION .. . . . . . . .. 3

NOTES , , .. ; , . , N ., I

--------------~--~~~------

For Official Use Only

v

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The l.awof Arrcst, Search, and Seizmr.:/ar Immigration Officers

INTRODUCTION

The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS or the Service) is charged with the administration and enforcement of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) and other laws relating to' the immigration and naturalization of aliens. The methods that the INS uses to enforce the immigration laws enacted hy Congress must conform to constitutional and statutory limitations as well as INS regulations. This is an update of the M-69, last updated in January 1983. It outlines the statutory and constitutional boundaries of an INS officer's authority. The enforcement activities of the INS involve both border operations (conducted along the border and its functional equivalents and at ports of entry) and operations conducted in the interior of the United States.

Questions regarding search and seizure requirements should be referred to supervisors or legal counsel. Counsel should be consulted before conducting any enforcement activities that might result in litigation, media attention, or public controversy. Early consultation will ensure the best possible legal support for the enforcement operation and permit ti mely legal advice to avoid potential problems.

The M-69 is intended for the daily use of INS officers. It is not a law textbook. It does not cover all aspects of the law of arrest, search. and seizure, but is limited to recurring circumstances where the authority of INS officers may be challenged.

Citations of authority are located at the end of the text. The authorities cited may be obtained from the district or regional counsel.

For Official 11.. Only

'IO:1l1uury 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law 0/ Arrest, Searcn, and Seimre/or Immigration Officers

CHAPTER I

SOURCES 01<' AUTHOIUTY

The primary sources of authority granted to officers of the INS are the Act, found in Title 8 of the United States-Code, abbreviated as, "8 U.S.C.", and other statutes relating to the immigration and naturalization of aliens. The secondary sources of authority are: (1) administrative regulations implementing those statutes (primarily those found in Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations, abbreviated as "8 C.F.R. "): (2) judicial decisions; and (3) administrative decisions of the Board of Immigration Appeals.'

The Constitution of the United States protects the rights of the people of the United States. All authority exercised by INS officers must conform to constitutional limitations, such as the fourth amendment. For example, while section 287(a)(3) of the Act appears to authorize officers to make warrantless vehicle stops in border areas, the Supreme Court in United States v, Brignoni-Pol1ce'cOlleluded that the fourth amendment precluded stopping a vehicle to question the occupants concerning their immigration status on less than a reasonable suspicion that the vehicle may contain aliens illegally in the United States, except at the border or its functional equivalents. See Chapter III(B)(5), infra.

A. THE FOURTH AMENDMENT

The fourth amendment provides:

The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and. effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.

The amendment consists of two clauses. One clause prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures. The other requires that warrants be issued only upon a showing of probable cause and upon meeting certain other conditions regarding the place to be searched and the persons or things to be seized.

For Official Use Only

I-I

Janua'Y1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: Thel.aw of Arrest, Search, and Seiwrejbr Immigration Qfficers

B. THE IMMIGRNl10N AND NATIONALITY ACT

Subject to constitutional limitations, INS officers may exercise the authority granted to them in the Act. The following statutory provisions relate to enforcement authority:

(I) Section 287(a)(1) [8 U.S.C. § 1357(a)(I)] provides authority, without a warrant, to interrogate any alien or person believed to be an alien as to his right to be or to remain in the Uuited States.

(2) Section 2R7(a)(2) [8 U.S.C. § 1357(a)(2)] -- provides authority to make ail arrest of an alien who in the officer's presence or view is entering or attempti ng to enter the United Stales in violation of the immigration laws, or who the officer has reason to believe (judicially construed to be the equivalent of probable cause under the fourth amendment) is in the United States in violation of the immigration laws and is likely to escape before an arrest warrant can be obtained.

(3) Section 281'(a)(3) [8 U.S.C. § 1357(a)(3)] -- provides authority within a reasonable distance of anyexternal boundary of the United States to board without a warrant any vessel within the territorial waters of the United States and any railway car, aircraft, or vehicle and search for aliens; and authority to enter private lands (but not dwellings) within 25 miles of the border for purposes of patrolling the border to prevent illegal entry of aliens.

(4) Section 287(a)(4) [8 U.S.C. § 1357(a)(4)] provides authority to arrest without a warrant for felonies which have been committed and whieh arc cognizable under the federal criminal laws regulating the admission, exclusion and/or expulsion of aliens where the officer has reason to believe (probable cause) that the person arrested is guilty of such felony and is likely to escape before a warrant may be obtained, provided that the person arrested is taken without unnecessary delay before a magistrate for arraignment.

(5) Section 287(a)(5) [8 U.S.C. § 13S7(a)(5)] -- provides authority to make general arrests without a warrant for crimes cognizable under federal law, to carry firearms, and to execute and serve any order, warrant, SUbpoena, summons. or other process issued under the authority of the United States. Section 287(a)(5)(A) provides that an INS officer may arrest for offenses against the United States committed inhis or her presence. A person arrested must be

taken without unnecessary delay before a magistrate for Section 287(a)(5)(B)

provides that an INS officer may arrest for any felony under the laws of the United

States if the officer has reason to believe (probable that the person to be arrested has

committed or is committing such a felony.

To exercise authority under section 287(a)(5)(A) or (B), the officer must he performing duties relating to the enforcement of the immigration laws at the time of the arrest and there must be a likelihood the person will escape before an arrest warrant can be obtained. The

For Official -Use Only

1- 2

Junuary 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of Arrest, Search, and Seizure/or Immlgrotion Offic:ns

officer also must be certified as having completed a designated training program prior to making

arrests under section The authority contained in section 287(a)(5)(B) cannot be

exercised until the Attorney promulgates final implementing regulations. A Notice of

Proposed Rulemaking for such regulations was published in the Federal Register on October 14, 1992.'

(6) Section 287(b) [8 U.S.C. § 1357(b)] -- provides authority to administer oaths and consider evidence concerning the privilege of any person, 10 enter, re-enter, pass through, or reside in the United States, or any other matter which is material alld relevant to the enforcement of the Act.

(7) Sec/ion 287(c) [8 U.S.C. § 1357(c)1 provides authority to search without a warrant persons and personal effects of applicants for-admission for evidence which may lead to the

individual's exclusion from the United States on grounds set forth in the Act. -

(8) Section 287(c) [8 U.S.C. § 1357(e)] -- requires an immigration officer to obtain a warrant or the consent of the owner (or his agent) to enter the premises of a farm or other outdoor agricultural operation for the purpose of interrogating a person believed to be an alien as to the person's right to be or to remain in the United States.

(9) Section 235M [8 U.S.C. § 1225] provides authority at the border to board and search any vessel, aircraft, railway car, or other conveyance in which an immigration officer believes aliens are being brought into the United States. This section also empowers officers to administer oaths and take and consider evidence regarding any suspected alie n' s right to enter, re-enter, pass through or reside in the U.S. or any other matter which is relevant and material to the enforcement of the Act.

(10) Section 274(b) [8 U .S.C. § 1324(b)] ,,- provides authority to seize vehicles, vessels, or aireraft where there is probable cause to believe that the conveyance has been used in violation of section 274(a) (Alien smuggling, transporting, harboring, etc.).

(11) Section 274(c) [8 U.S.C. § 1324(e)] provides authority to arrest individuals for violations of section 274(a).

(12) Section 274A [8 U_S.C. § 1324a1 -- provides authority to investigate and assess a civil money penalty to any person or entity for the unauthorized employment of aliens and failure to comply with the employment verification requirements in violation of the Act.

(13) Section 274C [8 U.S.C. § 1324~1 -- provides authority to investigate and assess a civil money penalty to any person or entity involved in civil document fraud related to any requirements under the Act.

For Official Use Only

I 3

January 1993

United Stales Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: 111C Law oj Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

c.

OTHER STATUTORY SOURCES OF AUTHORlTY

1. Title 18 of the United Slates CodE!

There are several provisions under Title 18 that specifically relate to enforcement of the immigration and nationality laws. These provisions are listed in The INS Investigator's Handbook, Appendix 5-5A (1985) or INS Border Patrol Handbook, Appendix 19-A (1985).'

2. Tille 19 oj the United SImes Code: Customs Cross-Designation

\

INS officers who have been specifically cross-designated under 19 U.S.C. § 1401(i) may make such customs arrests, searches, and seizures as delineated by Customs Form 55 and the Customs/Border Patrol Memorandum of Understanding, dated July 21, 1986.

3. Title 21 of the United Stales Code: DEA Cross-Designation

INS officers who have been specifically cross-designated under 21 U.S.C. § .878 may make such limited arrests, searches, and seizures as delineated by the Drug Enforcement Administration's (DEA) delegation of authority to the named agent and the DBA/INS Memoranda of Understanding of November 29, 1973, and August 1986.

4. Local Law

Some states accord "peace officer;' status to INS officers stationed in that state. The nature and extent of such "peace officer' authority depends entirely upon applicable state law. INS personnel should contact legal counsel for information regarding the extent of any authority granted by state law.

D. ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS

Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations, in particular Part 287, further delineates the enforcement authorities of INS officers. Section 287.3 of the regulations governs the disposition of cases of aliens arrested without a warrant, Section 287.4 governs procedures for executing, serving, and enforcing subpoenas. Section 287.5 gives any immigration officer the power and authority to administer oaths in or outside the United States, Section 287.7 provides that immigration detainers may be issued by an immigration officer as defined in section 101(a)(JS) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § II01(a)(l8), and only in the case of an alien who is amenable to exclusion or deportation proceedings under any provision of law. In response to Congressional mandate in section 287(a)(5) of the Act. 8 U.S,C. § 1357(a)(5). Part 287 will be subject to substantial revision in conjunction with the. assumption of general arrest authority by immigration officers. As noted above, a proposed rule to this effect was published on October 14, 1992.

For Official Use Only

1·4

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: HIe Law of 'Arrest, Search, and Seiture for Immignuion Qfjicers

CHAPTER II

QUESTIONING, INVESTIGATIVE DETENTION, AND ARREST

At the border or a port .of entry, section 235(b) of the Act authorizes the stopping and questioning of all persons seeking admission to the United States regarding their right to legally enter, and authorizes detaining any alien for further examination by an immigration judge unless the alien appears to the officer to be "clearly and beyond a doubt" entitled to enter. In the interior, section 287(a)(I) of the Act authorizes immigration officers to interrogate persons reasonably believed to be aliens as to their right to be in or remain in the United States. Generally, this authority extends to the limits permitted under the fourth amendment.' The limits of the fourth amendment depend upon the degree of intrusion on privacy and the nature of the encounter between an officer and ind ividnal.

The three principal levels of encounters between immigration officers and the public at locations other than thc border are: (1) consensual encounters, where the person is free to leave at any time or may refuse to answer any questions; (2) investigative stops, which must be supported by the officer's reasonable suspicion, and which only permit a brief detention of the suspect; and (3) arrest, which must be supported by probable cause to bel ieve the suspect has violated any law that the officer is authorized to enforce.

In encounters between the immigration officer and individuals represented by counsel, the officer should be thoroughly familiar with INS policy. '111C guidelines.ensure recognition of the constitutionally protected area of attorney-client privilege, These guidelines are contained in Appendix B. Questions concerning the applicability of the guidelines should be referred to supervisors or legal counsel.

A. QUESTIONING AND ObtENTION NOT AMOUNTING TO ARREST

I. Questioning (It tlil! Border and Functional Equivalent oj the Border

Travelers may be stopped at the international border and required to identify themselves as entitled to enter the United States and to show that their belongings and effects may lawfully be brought into the country.' Section 235(a) of the Act authorizes all immigration officer to examine all persons arriving at ports of the United States and to question under oath any person suspected of being an alien concerning the right 10 enter, re-enter, pass through, or reside in the United States, or any other matter related to enforcement of the Act and concerning his or her purpose in coming to theUnited States. Such questioning and examination is not limited to ports of entry, but may be performed anywhere along the international border and at a functional equivalent of the border.

For Official Use Only

11·1

January 1993

United Slates Department or Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of Arrest, Search, and Seizure fi»: immigration Officer:

2.

NOli-Border Consensual Encounters

Not all personal interaction between government officers and private individuals is a seizure of the person.' As long as officers do not by means of physical force or show of authority restrain the freedom of an individual to walk away, no seizure has occurred and fourth amendment limitations do not apply.'

INS officers should address questions to individuals in a way that promotes cooperation.

To this end, they should identify themselves as INS officers and perform their duties in a professional manner,

3. NOli-Border Detentive Encounters

An encounter may constitute a seizure from the outset An initially consensual encounter between an INS officer and an individual may escalate into a fourth amendment seizure. A seizure occurs when, in view of all circumstances surrounding the incident, a reasonable person would believe that he or she was not free to leave the presence of the officer.' The "reasonable person" test presumes an innocent person."

Officers may briefly detain a person for questioning when the officer has a reasonable suspicion based on specific articulable facts that thc person stopped is, was, or is about to be, engaged in a violation of a law the officer has the authority to enforce." An officer has not seized a person merely by inquiring about identity, requesting some identification, or requesting consent to search luggage or other areas.

An INS officer may briefly detain a person if there is reasonable suspicion to believe that the person is Of has violated any criminal statute which the officer is authorized to enforce," INS officers also may briefly detain a person if they have reasonable suspicion that the person may be an alien who is illegally in the United States."

In connection with a brief detention under these circumstances, officers may conduct a "frisk" or pat down search of the outer clothing of the individual for weapons to protect their safety and the safety of others if the officer reasonably believes the individual to be armed." The officer may reach inside the outer clothing to remove any item be or she believes to be a weapon." The officer may not, however, remove an item from the suspect's clothing that the officer does not reasonably believe is a weapon.

To determine whether an officer's articulated suspicions are "founded" or "reasonable," the courts will examine the totality of the circumstances, including: (I) objective observations, (2) information in police reports, (3) modes Of patterns of operation of certain types of lawbreakers, (4) informant's tips, and/or (5) all other pertinent information." Such evidence must be weighed in light of the particular officer's training and experience, and viewed with

For Official Use Only

11-2

January 1993

United Slates Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: TIle Law of Arrest, Search, and Seizure fi»: Immigration Officers

------ --------------~-

common-sense deductions about human behavior. The whole picture must yield a reasonable suspicion that the particular individual stopped is engaged in criminal activity."

While all encounter between an officer and a pedestrian does not necessarily constitute a fourth amendment seizure, a vehicle stop is always a "seizure" and, therefore, must be justified by reasonable suspicion that illegal aliens may be being transported within the vehicle." However, once a vehicle is lawfully stopped based upon reasonable suspicion, officers may order the occupants to exit the vehicle for questioning if reasonably necessary to secure the officer's safety." See Chapter III for further analysis of investigatory stops and searches of vehicles.

B. ARREST

An arrest occurs when a reasonable person in the suspect's position would conclude that he or she is under arrest." An arrest does not depend solely upon whether the officer announces that the suspect has been placed under arrest. If an officer's conduct is more intrusive than an investigative stop, an arrest may take place." In determining whether the officer's conduct is tantamount to an arrest, consideration must be given of facts and circumstances, such as: (1) when and where the encounter occurred; (2) the duration of the encounter; (3) the number of officers present; (4) what the officers and suspect said and did; (5) the use of weapons, handcuffs, a guard blocking the door, or other physical restraint; (6) the nature of the questioning; (7) whether officers escorted the suspect to another location for questioning; (8) whether the officer retained custody of important travel. or identification documents during the encounter; and (9) whether the suspect was permitted to leave following the encounter."

An arrest must be supported by probable cause to believe the person has committed an offense against the United States. Otherwise, the arrest will not withstand a fourth amendment challenge. Probable cause is knowledge or trustworthy information of facts and circumstances which would lead a reasonably prudent person to believe that an offense has been committed or is being committed by the person to be arrested. Probable cause is more than mere suspicion or the observation of behavior that is merely suspicious, but there does not have to be absolute certainty of guilt. In determining whether probable cause was present at the time of an arrest, courts consider the totality of the circumstances as viewed by a reasonable prudent officer coupled with the officer's training and experience. Pertinent factors include: personal knowledge or observation by the officer; information contained in official communication to the officer; information from reliable informants, victims or witnesses; actions and appearance of the suspectts); criminal reputation of the suspects; inconsistent and unpersuasive answers to routine questions; and possession, disposal, or concealment of evidence.

For Official Use Only

II - 3

Januaryt993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69; The Iaw of Arrest, Search, and SeiZlire for lllulligraJion Officers

An INS officer is authorized to make arrests for both administrative (civil) and criminal violations of the Act. The procedures for administrative and criminal arrests differ substantially and will be addressed separately.

I. Administrative Arrest (Civil Arrest}

a. Authority and Purpose of Administrative Arrest

The law strongly favors the use of an arrest warrant, even for a non-criminal arrest.

Therefore, warrants are required unless a specific exception to the warrant requirement exists. The Act and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act address the warrant requirement in administrative arrest situations, Le., where the only legal action to be taken relates to the exclusion or deportation of an alien.

Section 287(a)(5) of the Act authorizes immigration officers to execute and serve any warrant, subpoena, summons, order, or other process issued under the authority of the United Slates. Section 242(a) of the Act provides the authority to arrest an alien upon warrant of the Attorney General pending a determination of his or her deportability. When' an order of deportation becomes final, the alien may be detained or released on bond pursuant to section 242(c) of the Act. INS may detain an alien nuder section 235 of the Act at any time to exclude and deport him or her after he or she has been finally ordered excluded pursuant to section 236 of the Act.

Section 287(a)(2) of the Act empowers an INS officer to arrest without warrant any alien "who in his presence or view is entering or attempting to enter the United States" ill violation of any immigration law or regulation, or any alien in the United States "if he has reason to believe" that the particular alien is in the United States in violation of any such law or regulation and is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained for his arrest. The words "reason to believe" in this statute have been interpreted to mean "probable cause.'?' '

Likelihood of escape before a warrant can be obtained may be shown by evidence of previous escapes or evasions of immigration authorities," as well as lack of ties -to the community such as family, home, or a job. Attempted flight from an INS officer or nervous behavior suggesting that the suspect is looking for an opportunity to abscond may justify an arrest without a warrant." The mobility of the suspect may justify a belief that the suspect is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained."

The regulations provide that an alien arrested without a warrant under section 287(a)(2) of the Act shall be taken without unnecessary delay before an INS officer other than the arresting INS officer and examined concerning his or her right to enter or remain in the United Slates. If no other qualified INS officer is readily available and it would entail unnecessary delay to take

For Official Use Only

11-4

Januaryt993

United States Department of J IIstice Immigration and' Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of Arrest, Search, GI1(/ Seimre forImmignuion 0fficin

the alien before another INS officer, the arresting INS officer may examine the alien if the conduct of such an examination is part of the duties assigned to that arresting INS officer. The purpose of this procedure is for the examining officer to decide if there is sufficient evidence to determine whether the individual is an alien who is excludable or deportable."

b. Warnings Required Fottowing Administrative Arrest.;

Once the examining officer determines that formal exclusion or deportation proceedings will be instituted, certain advisals must be given to the alien. The alier must be informed of the reason for the arrest, of the right to be represented by.counsel of his or her choice at no expense to the Government, and of the availability of free legal services programs and of organizations recognized pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 292.2 located in the district where the proceedings are to be held. The alien must be given a list of such programs and organizations. The alien also must be advised that any statement made may be used against hi m or her in a subsequent proceeding." If arrested without a warrant, the alien must be advised that a decision will be made within 24 hours whether custody will be continued or whether release on bond or on personal recognizance will be available." The 1-221 (Order to Show Cause) provides the required warnings to aliens placed in deportation proceedings or granted administrative voluntary departure. Miranda warnings need not be given where the only contemplated legal action against the alien is exclusion, deportation, or voluntary departure. Where the alien is in custody and the focus of the interrogation shifts to contemplated criminal prosecution, Miranda warnings should he given. If Miranda warnings are not provided evidence derived is inadmissible, unless it is otherwise discoverable. See Chapter II(B)(2)(e), infra.

Pursuant to a stipulated settlement agreement with the agency that is effective through early 1995, aliens arrested under section 287(a)(2) of the Act will be provided with a "Notice of Rights" (Form 1-826). Upon request, such aliens will also be given two hours to contact counsel before questioning can proceed. Those aliens whom the INS has determined will be offered the option of voluntary return in lieu of deportation proceedings, and who accept this offer, will be provided a 'Request for Disposition" (Forms 1-827A and I-827-B).

2. Criminal Arrest

a. AUlhority

Whenever feasible, INS officers should obtain a warrant prior to making an arrest.

Section 287(a)(4) of the Act permits officers authorized by the Attorney General through regulation to arrest without a warrant any person for felonies cognizable under the immigration laws if the officer has reason to believe (probable cause) that the particular person is guilty of such felony and is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained. Felonies cognizable under the immigration laws include but are nut limited to:

For Officiat Use Only

11-5

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law cf'Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

(1) bringing or attempting to bring a person to the United Slates at a place other than a designated port or place of entry [section 274(a)(1 )(A) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1324(a)(1)(A)];

(2) bringing to, transporting within, or harboring of an alien who is not entitled to enter, reside, or remain in the United States knowingly or in reckless disregard of the fact that the alien has come to, entered, or remains in the United States in violation of law [section 274(a)(I)(B)&(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1324(a)(I)(B)&(C)};

(3) encouraging or inducing an allen to come to, enter, or reside in the United States, knowingly or in reckless disregard of the fact that such coming to, entry, or residence is, or will be, in violation of law [section 274(a)(I)(D) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1324(a) (l}(O)];

(4) illegal entry by an alien for the second or subsequent time [section 275(a) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1325(a)J;

(5) marriage fraud [section 275(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1325(b)];

(6) reentry of an arrested and deported or excluded alien without the advance permission of the Attorney General to reapply for admission, unless the alien demonstrates he or she was not required 10 obtain advance permission [section 276 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1326];

(7) aiding or conspiring to aid a criminal or subversive alien to enter the United States [section 277 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1327]; and

(8) importing or harboring aliens for any immoral purpose, such as prostitution [section 278 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1328].

Section 287(a)(5) of the Act has expanded the arrest authority of those JNS officers designated by the Attorney General through regulation to have such authority. Pursuant to section 287(a)(5)(A) of the Act an INS officer may arrest for offenses against the United States committed in his or her presence. Under section 287(a)(5)(B) of the Act, an INS officer may arrest for any felony under the laws of the United States, if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the person to be arrested has committed or is committing such a felony. To exercise authority under section 287(a)(5)(A) or (B) of the Act, an officer must be performing duties relating to the enforcement of the immigration laws at the time of the arrest and there must be a likelihood that the suspect will escape before a warrant can be obtained. An officer exercising authority pursuant to section 287(a)(5)(R) of the Act must be certified as having completed a designated training program. Exercise of authority under section 287(a)(5)(B) is dependent upon final promulgation of the Attorney General's implementing regulations.

For Official Use Only

11·6

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Lawcf'Arresi, Search, and Seizure for immigration Officers

Other felonies that fall within the jurisdiction of the INS include those described in sections 242(e) [!\ U.S.C. § 1252(e)] and 266(d) [8 U.S.C. § 1306(d)] of the Act as well as certain felonies in Title 18 of the United States Code relating to false impersonation, nationality and citizenship, and passports and visas. General criminal offenses are found in Title 18 of the United States Code. However, other criminal offenses can be found in other. titles. Other criminal offenses which immigration officers are likely to encounter may be found in Titles 19 and 21 ofthe United States Code, which relate to customs and narcotics violations. For a more complete and descriptive listing, consult 1711': I&NS Investigator's Handbook, Appendix 5-5A and 5·5B (1985) or INS Border Patrol Handbook, Appendix 19-A (1985).

Rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure sets forth the procedure for an arrest made pursuant to a crim inal warrant. A person arrested without a warrant must be taken without unnecessary delay before a United States Magistrate. The judicial dctcrmination of probable cause should be held within 48 hours of the arrest, absent an emergency or extraordinary circumstances." For purposes of computation, the time includes weekends and holidays.

b. Use oj Force to Fffect all Arrest

An INS officer may use the amount of force reasonably necessary to effectuate an arrest or detention that he or she is lawfully authorized to effectuate. The officer is immune from liability provided the force was not excessive." In an excessive force case, the inquiry is an objective one under the fourth amendment: "Whether the officers' actions are 'objectively reasonable' in light of the facts and circumstances confronting them, without regard to their underlying intent or motivation. "" INS policy permits the use of non-deadly physical force only in self-defense, in defense of a fellow officer or third party, or when it is necessary to make an arrest or prevent an escape."

Deadly force should only be used in self-defense, in defense of another officer, or in the defense of. a third party when death or grievous bodily harm is threatened." Strict adherence to INS policy is required concerning any use of firearms. INS firearms policy provides that warning shots must not be fired."

Section 287(a)(5) 'of the Act provides that under regulations prescribed by the Attorney General, an officer or employee of the Service may carry firearms. The general arrest authority of this section becomes effective only when the Attorney General publishes final regulations which state the categories of officers of the Service who may use force, including deadly force, and the circumstances under which such force may bc used." The designation of officers and employees who may carry a firearm and standards for use of firearms are currently set forth in the INSfirearrris policy.

For Official Uso Only

11·7

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law ofArrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

c. Miranda Warnings Following Criminal Arrest

In Miranda v, Arizona," the Supreme Court held that prior to custodial interrogation for

a criminal offense, an officer must provide the certain warnings, or evidence procured

as a result of that custodial interrogation will not admissible in a later criminal case against

(he defendant. Specifically, a suspect must be advised that anything he or she says may be used against him or her and that he or she has the right to remain silent, to consult with a lawyer. and to have a lawyer present during questioning, and, if indigent, to have counsel appointed. The purpose of these warnings, commonly termed Miranda warnings, is to protect the fifth amendment right against compulsory self-incrimination.

Miranda warnings arc only required prior to interrogating an individual who is in custody." Whether a person is in custody for Miranda purposes depends on whether there is "a formal arrest or restraint on freedom of movement associated with a formal arrest." The key inquiry is whether a reasonable person in the suspect's position would believe he or she is under arrest." The fact that the person is a suspect or that the officer knows the person will not be allowed to depart, does not place the person "in custody" for purposes of Mlrandu."

Miranda warnings are applicable to the enforcement of the criminal laws. Therefore, while Miranda warnings do not apply in routine immigration inquiries, such warnings must be given when any person in custody is questioned regarding information which might be used against that person in a criminal prosecution." Similarly, a person in a local jail while under arrest on state charges must be given Miranda warnings where the INS officer asks questions that are "reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response from the suspect. «c If the officer has no prior reason to suspect that the questioning is likely to elicit an incriminating response for purposes of criminal prosecution or has no intention of prosecuting tile suspect based upon the information obtained, Miranda warnings are not necessary.

Miranda warnings are not applicable to evidence that is non-testimonial. Non-testimonial evidence could be the giving of blood samples, appearances. in a line-up, repeating a given phrase, or providing handwriting exemplars." Miranda warnings need not be given prior to search ing for or seizing physical evidence.

Whenever Miranda warnings are given, they should be read verbatim from the Miranda card that is provided to each INS officer . This allows the INS officer to testify in court to the exact language used at the time warnings were given. It is also permissible to have the suspect read the warnings. It is the duty of the officer to ensure that the suspect understands the warnings. In cases where the suspect does 110t understand English, the warnings must be given in a language understood by the suspect. If the officer is not able to do this orally, the assistance of a qualified interpreter may be necessary. If the suspect is allowed to read the warnings, whether in English or another language that he or she understands, the officer must be sure that the suspect has the ability to read the text of the warnings.

For Official Use Only

II 8

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of Arrest, Search, lind Sehure for Immigration Officers

Once an individual has requested an attorney, the interrogation must cease immediately and the suspect may not be interrogated about the case until after conferring with counselor the suspect otherwise initiates further conversation." In contrast, if the individual merely invokes his ~ight to remain silent and does not request an attorney, the admissibility of statements obtained thereafter depends Oil whether the individual's right to cut off questioning was "scrupulously honored.'?" Generally, the "scrupulously honored" test requires officers tot l) immediately cease the interrogation, (2) resume questioning only after a significant passage of time and fresh set of Miranda warnings, and (3) either change the inquiry to another erime or wait for the suspect to initiate a conversation concerning the initial crime under investigation.

Whenever INS officers are unsure whether warnings should be provided they should check with their supervisors or legal counsel.

d. Detention oj Material witnesses ill Criminal Cases

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3144, a judge may order the arrest of a witness in a criminal proceeding if a party files an affidavit indicating that the witness's testimony is material and showing that it may be impracticable to secure the witness's presence by subpoena. Aliens and United States citizens who witness a criminal act may under appropriate circumstances be taken into custody by the INS and brought before a magistrate as soon as possible for designation as a material witness. Once the magistrate orders the material witnesses to remain in custody, such witnesses are in the custody of the U.S. Marshall. The INS Illay not continue to maintain custody of United States citizens who are designated material witnesses. The INS may under certain circumstances, and with the agreement of the U.S, Marshalls' Service, maintain custody of aliens designated as material witnesses while they are awaiting exclusion or deportation hearings.

Under the Bail Reform Act of [984," a material witness is entitled to substantially the same treatment regarding conditions of release as a criminal defendant." The material witness must be released on personal recognizance or upon the execution of an unsecured appearance bond ill an amount specified by the judicial officer unless the judicial officer determines that such a release on one's own recognizance or bond will not reasonably assure the required appearance of the material witness." If the latter determination is made, the judicial officer shall impose conditions for release as specified by statute." No material witness may be detained because of inability to comply with any condition of release if the testimony of such witness can adequately be secured by deposition and further detention is not necessary to prevent a failure of justice." The government may seek review of an order of release and a person detained may file a motion for revocation or amendment of the order of detention. Such motions arc to be decided prompt! y. Sl

The Supreme Court has held that prompt deportation of illegal alien witnesses is justified if the United States Attorney makes a good-faith determination that they possess 110 evidence

For Official Use Only

1I-9

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of'Arrest, Search, and Seizure fin: Immigrat/011 Qificers

favorable to the defendant in a criminal prosecution. However, sanctions may be imposed on the Government for deporting witnesses if the criminal defendant makes a plausible showing that the testimony of the deported witnesses would have been material and favorable to the defense in ways not merely cumulative to the testimony of available witnesses." This decision has the effect of limiting the Government, in most cases, to charge smugglers and transporters with bringing to or transporting a limited number of aliens and to hold as material witnesses only those aliens with whose transportation the defendant is charged.

Although not providing authority to detain, section 215 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1185, permits the Service to prevent departure of aliens under certain circumstances. A departure control order may be entered by the Service if it is determined that the departure of an alien is deemed prejudicial to interests of the United States. The regulations at 8 C.F.R. § 215.3 set forth the categories of aliens whose departure is deemed prejudicial to the interests of the United States.

For Offioial Use Only

II 10

January 1993

United States Department ()f Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of Arrest. Search, and SeizurejOr lmmigl'tltioo Qificers

CHAPTER III

SEARCHF.B AND SEIZURES

The fourth amendment rule against unreasonable searches and seizures "protects people, not places.'?' It protects a person's reasonable expectation of privacy against government intrusion. The test of a legitimate expectation of privacy is: (I) whether the individual has a subjective expectation of privacy; and (2) whether that expectation is one which society is prepared to recognize as "reasonable. ""

A. USE OF SHARCH WARRANTS

The law favors' the use of warrants to search or seize persons or property. Evidence, if seized without a warrant, may be inadmissable if a warrant could have been obtained prior to the seizure." The fourth amendment generally requires a warrant in order for a search to be deemed "reasonable." Therefore, absent some exception to the warrant requirement, warrantless searches and seizures are "unreasonable." Moreover, warrants may only be issued in certain prescribed ways.

Warrant requirements vary depending on whether the suspected violation is civil or criminal. The warrant requirements for criminal violations are governed by Rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. The warrant requirements fur civil or administrative violations are based upon the Act and judicial interpretations.

L Rule 41 Warrants: Crimina! Violations

The fourth amendment precludes issuance of a warrant except upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched and the persons 'or things to be seized.

Rule 41(c) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure states that a warrant may issue upon an affidavit sworn to before a federal magistrate, if the magistrate is satisfied that the affidavit reflects probable cause. The affidavit generally must be in writing. In an emergency, a magistrate may issue a warrant based upon sworn oral testimony communicated by telephone.

When seeking a telephonic warrant, the officer, in ccnjunction with the appropriate Special Assistant United States Attorney or Assistant United States Attorney, should be prepared to show that: (1) he or she could not reach the magistrate in his or her office during regular business hours; (2) the officer who seeks to make the search is a significant distance away from

For Official Use Only

nr- I

Jan ... !)' 1993

United States Department 01' Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law olA rrest, Search, and Seizure for immigration Officers

the Il,lagistrate; (3) be~ause of the particular factual situation it would be unreasonable for a s,ubstItute officer w,ho IS ~ear. the magistrate to prepare a written affidavit to the magistrate in lieu of the telephonic application; and (4) the need for a search is such that absent the telephonic procedure a warrant could not be obtained and thereis a significant risk that evidence would be destroyed,"

Probable caus~ exists where "the facts and circumstances within their [the officers') knowledge, and of which they [have} reasonably trustworthy information ... [are] sufficient in th~mselves t? warrant a man of reasonable caution in the belief that. , . a crime has been or is being committed, and that property subject to seizure can be found at the place or on the person to be searched. "" Rule 41 also permits issuance of a warrant to search for and seize "any person for whose arrest there is probable cause, or who is unlawfully restrained."

An affidavit that alleges facts based upon the personal observation of a law enforcement officer is generally sufficient to establish probable cause and will support the issuance of a warrant.. Howe~er, pcrs?nal knowledge is not essential and an affidavit may he based upon hearsay information provided to tile officer by a confidential informant."

, If the ~ffidavit is based upon hearsay, the affiant must identify the underlying

circumst~nces, l~cluding the "ver~city" and "basis of knowledge" of persons supplying the hearsar information so as to permit a magistrate to make a practical, common sense decision regarding the presence of probable cause." Where the hearsay derives from information ?fovided b! an i~formant, ,the affidavit must contain evidence bearing on the veracity of the Inform.ant. An mform~t s veracity or trustworthiness may be established in several ways. If thy l.nfor111a.nt has pre~!Ously provided aecurate information, the information provided is an admission against penal l?terest, ~r there .is no motive to falsify and there is independent police corroboration of the details, the information may be considered reliable and trustworthy."

2. Blackie's and Barlow's Warrants: CivillAdminislr;uive Violations

. In those c~f~rcement operations where no criminal prosecution is contemplated, it is INS policy to ~se civil entry :va:rants. An administrative warrant may not be used as a pretext to gather evidence for a criminal prosecution." The use of civil warrants was sanctioned in Blackie's Houseof Beef, Inc. 1:'. Castillo= Intemationai Molders. v. Nelson," and Marshall v, Barlow's, Inc."

a. Blackie's Warrants

In Blackie's, officers obtained a warrant to enter a commercial establishment in order to search fro: persons b~lieved to be aliens in the United States. without legal authority." The warrant did not mention Rule 41; rather, the authority to search was premised upon sections 103(a) of the Act [8 U.S.C. § 1103(a)] and 287 of. the Act [8 U.S.C. §1357]. Further, the

For Official Us. Only

Ill- 2

January t993

United States Department of J ustice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M·69: The Law of Arrest, Search, and Sehure fi»: Immigl'aliOl1 O.fficers

warrant did not contain any "particularized description" of the individual aliens sought. In upholding the entry warrant as reasonable within the fourth amendment, the court held that the warrant need not specifically name the aliens so long as the warrant and accompanying affidavits narrowed down the field of potentially vulnerable persons to those whom officers had probable cause to believe were illegal aliens.

For a magistrate to issue a Blackle's type warrant, the affidavit must demonstrate probable cause that illegal aliens will be found on the premises to be entered. However, the particularized description requirement is relaxed with respect to what is sought. The warrant must specify the places to be entered and the time and scope of the inspection. The affidavits should contain sufficient information to permit a magistrate to find probable cause to believe that aliens who are illegally in the United States will be found on the premises.

Officers may properly use Blackie 's warrants to gain entry onto premises for the purpose of searching for unnamed illegal aliens who are believed to be present on the premises, However, the federal district court in the Northern District of Illinois has suggested that Blackie's warrants may not be used for residential premises."

b. Barlow'S warrems

A Barlow's warrant need not be based upon specific evidence of an existing violation but may be issued on the basis of a general administrative plan for enforcement based upon specific criteria that explain how a business falls into the general plan." A Barlow's warrant may be issued upon a showing that reasonable legislative or administrative standards for conducting an inspection are satisfied with respect to the establishment to be searched."

In order to obtain a Barlow's warrant, the agency must show that the warrant is based upon a general inspection plan. The first requirement of a general plan is identification of the source information. The source data may be gathered from neutral sources such as surveys, studies, expert opinion, and statistics." The agency must also show that the general plan is consistent with the agency's mission." TIle third and fourth requirements are identification of the material used and the manner of its use in making a specific selection. The agency must show that it has a plan with specific criteria, that the criteria are neutral as to this specific employer, that the criteria came from a source other than the investigator, and that there is an adequate explanation as to how a particular employer falls within the plan." The application for a warrant must show that: (l) the plan was derived from a neutral source that idcnti fied the group of businesses to be inspected under the plan; (2) the plan is consistent with the agency's mission; (3) the specific criteria used in the plan and the fact that they are neutral to the business to be inspected; and (4) the particular business falls within the plan. A Barlow's warrant may be useful in the investigation of employer sanctions cases under section 274A of the Act.

For Official Usc Only

III • 3

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of. Arrest, Search, and Seizure jar Immigration QlJiccrs

3.

Execution oj the Search Warrant

The manner of execution of a criminal search warrant is specified in Rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Among other requirements, Rule 41 specifies the period for which the warrant is valid, the time of day it may be executed, the manner in which the executing officers may enter the premises to he searched, and the requirements regarding the property seized during the search.

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3105 the warrant may be executed by: (I) the person to whom the warrant is directed; (2) any officer authorized by law to execute a search warrant; or (3) any other person aiding someone authorized to execute a warrant, who is present and acting in execution of the warrant. Under 18 U.S.C. § 3105, unnamed federal agents may aid other federal agents who are named in the warrant. Stale officers may also assist federal agents in executing a federal warrant.

Under 18 U.S.C. 1I 3109, officers executing a search warrant are required to knock and announce their authority and purpose upon arrival at the place to be searched, If entry is refused, the officers may then use reasonable force to obtain entry.

In those circumstances where lNS officers are asked to assist in the execution of a warrant obtained by state or local authorities, the INS officers must inquire about the nature and scope of that warrant to ensure that they are acting consistently with its authorization and limitations."

H. WARRANTLESS SEARCHES AND SEIZURES

Warrantless searches and seizures are per se unreasonable under the fourth amendment unless they fall within a recognized exception.

I. Sea rch. Incident to Lml!fiil Arrest

Incident to a lawful arrest, the arresting officer may search the arrestee's person and the area "within his immediate control" meaning the area from within which the arrestee might gain possession of a weapon or destructible evidence." A search incident to arrest is an exception to the warrant requirement when four factors are present: (I) the arresting officer must have the authority to make a valid arrest; (2) the arrest must be based on probable cause; (3) the arrest must he made in good faith and not as a pretext to justify the search; and (4) the search must be contemporaneous with the arrest. There is no requirement that the facts of the particular case indicate a likelihood of finding either evidence or weapons." The purpose of the search is to protect the arresti ng officers and to prevent the destruction of evidence."

For Official Us. Only

111 - 4

J..,uaryl993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturallzation Service

M·69: 111e Law of. Arrest, Search, and Selturefor Immigration QlJicers

a.

Search of Vehicle Incident to Arrest

When an occupant of a vehicle is arrested, the officer may, incident to this arrest, search the entire passenger compartment, including the glove compartment, as well as closed containers located therein." See also Inventory Searches of Seized Vehicles and Container Searches at III-13, infra. The officers may also conduct a limited protected search of a vehicle when he or she has a reasonable belief that the motorist is dangerous and could grab a weapon inside the vehicle. even if the stop is only based upon reasonable suspicion, The scope of the search is limited to the location where a weapon could be accessible to the detainee."

b. Search of Premises Incident to Arrest

If a person is arrested in a dwelling, only that area within the reach of an arrestee may ordinarily be searched pursuant to a lawful arrest without a search warrant." However, if the officer making the arrest has a reasonable suspicion based upon specific articulable facts that a dwelling where the arrest occurred harbors an individual who presents a danger to those on the scene, a limited protective sweep of the area may be conducted." The sweep in these circumstances extends only to a cursory inspection of those spaces where a person might be found; it does not include an in-depth search of the area.

If the person is arrested outside or near a dwelling, the dwelling may not constitutionally be searched except with consent or in exigent circumstances, as described below. R'

2. Consent Searches

Officers may conduct a search of premises or effects without a warrant and without probable cause if the person in control of the premises or effects gives his or her voluntary consent. Whether consent is voluntary depends upon the totality of the circumstances, including "evidence of minimal schooling, low intelligence, and the lack of effective warnings to a person of his rights. "" Consent is involuntary when it is the product of coercion or threat. express or implied." Other factors affecting voluntariness include: an officer's claim or show of authority," prior illegal government action, mental or emotional state of the person," cooperation or lack thereof," and custody." Officers need not advise the subject that consent may be refused, although whether such an advisory is given is a factor in determining the voluntariness of the consent. Mere failure to object to a search or otherwise resist is not consent." The burden is on the government to demonstrate that consent was voluntary. Miranda warnings are inapplicable, However, consent may not be obtained by trick or coercion."

Consent to search may he given only by the person with the primary right to occupy the premises or a third party who possesses common authority over, Or other sufficient relationship to, the premises or effect sought to be inspected." A warrantless search will also be upheld

FOf Officiat Use Only

III - 5

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Lawof'. Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Cfficers

wh~n based upon the consent of a .third party whom. the police, at the time of entry, reasonably believe to possess common authonty over the premises, but who in fact does not." Generally, courts uphold third-party consent to search a home given by a spouse, a live-in paramour, or a parent, In contrast, a landlord or hotel owner may not give valid consent to search the rented

premises. "

The duration and scope of a person's consent is measured by a standard of objective reasonableness ', In other words, what would the typical reasonable person have understood by ~he exchange with the officer?" If an officer requests permission to search a car for drugs, it IS reasonable for an officer to consider a suspect's general consent to search the 'vehicle to include .unlockcd containers within the car. 9l A person may revoke his or her consent to search at any lime.

3. Exigent Circumstances

Officers may make a warrantless search based upon probable cause when some exigency or compelling urgency requires immediate action in order to pr6tect law enforcement personnel or the public, or to prevent the destruction of contraband or evidence." Factors which the cour~ will c?nsider in determinin~ exigency to justify a warrantless search include: (I) the gravity or .vlOlent nature of the cnme; (2) whether the suspect is believed to be armed; (3) a clear showing of ~robable cause to believe that the suspect committed the offense; (4) likelihood that the suspect :VIII escape absent sW.ift action; (5) level of force utilized in effecting the entry; (6) reason to believe that the suspect IS on the premises; and (7) insufficient time to obtain even a telephonic warrant."

Warra?tl.ess entrie~ and searches ~re also permitted: (1) when officers reasonably believe tha~ S01~e?ne IS in immedlate need of assistance; (2) to protect or to preserve life; or (3) to avoid senous injury, At such times officers may seize any evidence that is in plain view."

Warrantless entry and seizure of contraband or evidence is permissible if the officers believe that the evidence is probably being destroyed.

a. Hot Pursuit

An officer may enter private property in hot pursuit of a suspect who is fleeing to avoid arrest. 91 Upon entering the premises in hot pursuit, officers may briefly conduct a protective s",:,~p ?of the premises to ensure their s~fety from other persons or weapons that may be hidden wltil1n: Officers may enter upon pnvate lands to make a warrantless arrest, provided the arrest IS b~scd upon probable cause a.nd the person is in plain view." A suspect may not defeat an otherwise proper arrest by retreating to a private place. ""

For Official Use Only

111-6

JanWIrY 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: TIle Law of Arrest, Search, and Seirureforlmmigration Officers

Hot pursuit does have limitations. A claim of hot pursuit will not be sustained where there is no immediate or continuous pursuit of a suspect from the scene of a crime, or where the alleged offense is not a serious crime."

b. Arrest in a Public Place

A law enforcement officer may enter a business establishment or a public place on the same basis as the public who is invited to transact business.!" Any area where there is no expectation of privacy is considered a public place.!" This includes observations made by INS officers in public areas which are not protected by the fourth amendment, since there is no legitimate expectation of privacy in public areas such as parks, roads, streets, alleys, private premises open to the public, and that portion of commercial establishments, lobbies or hallways of apartment houses that are open to the public.'" Officers may enter onto farms or other outdoor agricultural operations that extend invitations to enter to the general public, such as "pick it yourself" orchards.

4. Detention Facility Searches

Fourth amendment protection is diminished in the area of supervisory searches of prisoners by governmental personnel.

a. Searches of Detainee's Cell

The Supreme Court has upheld the practice of conducting unannounced searches of prisoner cells at irregular intervals.!" Prisoners' privacy rights during incarceration do not outweigh the need of the prison authorities to ensure security within penal institutions. me The Supreme Court has TIlled that detainees have no right to observe a search of their cells.!"

b. Mail Searches

Searches of incoming and outgoing mail at penal institutions, while within the fourth amendment, more frequently have been addressed on first amendment grounds.'" Correspondence to and from prisoners is divided into two categories, privileged and nonprivileged. Privileged mail includes mail from attorneys, courts, governmental officials, and in some instances, the media.'"' Privileged incoming mail may only be inspected in the presence of the inmate addressee, and only for contraband. Themail may not be read and/or censored. Privileged outgoing mail may not be opened, inspected, or censored." This is subject to modification if the authorities can establish probable cause for search aud seizure of privileged rnail.!''

Non-privileged mail may be inspected for contraband, but the intrusion should be minimal to protect the first amendment rights of the prisoncr.!" If the penal authorities elect

For Official Use Only

III - 7

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of'Arrest, Search, and Seirure for Immigratlon Officers

to censor non-privileged mail, they must give appropriate notice to the intended recipient and a ~onabJe opportunity to challenge the decision, and they must refer complaints to a prison official other than the person who originally censored the correspondence. III

c. Searches of Detainees

The Supreme Court has upheld routine strip searches given the reasonable security concerns within penal institutions. n. Among the factors which the Court considered were the scope of the intrusion and the manner and the place in which the search was conducted. Before undertaking any search, consideration should be given to tile reason for the search and the relationship In the security concerns of the institution.

In the Western Region, pursuant to Flores v. Meese;" officers may not strip search juvenile alien detainees absent probable cause for the search.

5. Border Searches

Border searches are a recognized exception to the fourth amendment's general principle that a warrant be obtained prior to conducting the search. Border searches are reasonable without a warrant and without probable cause, ". This exception also applies to searches at the functional equival ent of the border.

a. Searches at International Borders

The interrogation and search of individuals and their effects at the border is inherently reasonable for purposes of the fourth amendment."? INS officers may interrogate individuals [0 determine admissibility without probable cause or "reasonable suspicion.':" INS officers may interrogate all persons seeking admission to the United States concerning any basis for which the 'individual may be excludable.!" Routine searches of persons and things may be made upon their entry into the country without a search warrant or probable cause. 'ID Routine searches of persons and things likewise may be made upon their exit from the country. '" However, a warrantless border search is valid only if conducted by officials specifically authorized to conduct such searches. >U

These border searches may be made when entry is made by land from the neighboring countries of Mexico and Canada, at the place where a ship docks in this country after having been to a foreign port, and at any airport in the country where international flights land.:" Officers may search automobiles, baggage, and goods entering the country. Any person seeking to enter the country, despite thc brevity of absence or intended period of stay in the United Stales, may be required to submit to a search of his or her outer clothing, purse, wallet, or pockets. However, border searches are subject to constitutional limitations. Searches of persons, particularly body cavity searches and similar intrusive procedures, require some level

For Official Use Only

til - 8

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M·69: 11IeLawoj'Arrest, Search, and Seiwre for Immigration Officers

of suspicion under the fourth amendment. m The border search authority extends to all persons or vehicles attempting 10 enter or seen entering the United States. The authority has been extended to permit searches where an automohile was kept in constant surveillance for a period of four hours and the search was conducted at a distance of twenty- live miles from the border, '" and where a vehicle was seen coming from a "known river crossing" some 300 yards from the Rio Grande, since the vehicle was still within the "border nexus. "'"

b. Extended Border Search

An "extended border search" takes place after a person, vehicle, mail, or some other property has crossed the border or cleared a prior checkpoint, or a significant amount of time has elapsed since the object first arrived in the United States. An extend~ border s~arc~ I~ust be justified by "reasonable suspicion" that the subject of the search was involved 10 criminal activity. "" In contrast, a search conducted at the border or its functlonal e:tui~alent requires no suspicion and a rolling patrol search requires probable cause. The detennination of whether a valid extended border search has been undertaken is based on a multiplicity of factors. Generally, an extended border search requires: (I) reasonable suspicion uf illegality; (2) reasonable certainty that the vehicle/person crossed the border; and (3) reasonable certainty that the condition of the vehicle/person remained unchanged since the border was crossed, often established through constant surveillance or tracking. '" Courts have upheld border searches conducted thirty-six hours after the vessel entered Los Angeles harbor," seven hours after border crossing and 105 miles from the border.!" and where radar tracked a plane from

Mexico entering into the United States. '"

c. Functional Equivalent

The broad authority which exists at the international border also extends to areas found (0 be the "functional equivalent" of the border. This principle is based on common sense and geography when an interior location is one wh~eh perso~ls crossing the bordcr.lnust pass to en.ter the domestic traffic flow. Generally, a functional equivalent of the border IS a point marking the intersection of two or more roads extending from the border without any major intervening crossroad, or an airport which is the destination of a nonstop flight from outside the United

States.

Three factors arc used to determine whether a location other than the actual border is a "functional equivalent": (1) reasonable certainty that a borde~ cross.ing has occtlr~ed; (2) lack of time or opportunity for the object to have changed materially since tl~e crossing; and (3) execution of the search at the earliest practical point after the actual crossing. For example, customs agents conducted surveillance in the dock area where passengers leave cruise ships and

observed an individual the ship and entering a vehicle. The vehicle departed the area

and was stopped some one-half mile from the docks, although still with.in the port ~.

A search at the gangplank area would have required the agents to disclose their routine hiding

For Official Use Only

III - 9

January 1993

Uniled Slates Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of'Arrest, Search, and SeiZl/l'ejbrlmmigralion Q[ficers

places at the port. Since the car had not left the port area when it was stopped and the stop was effected at the earliest practical time, it fell within the "functional equivalent" excepuon.t=

. The :unctional equivalent of ~e border may be the mouth of a canyon, the confluence of trails or fivers, or a fixed checkpoint. Not all checkpoints are "functional equivalents." The ~cy factor for consideration in determining whether 'the location is the "functional equivalent" IS whether the "person or item had entered into [the] country from outside. "'" A "functional equivalent" will not be found where there is a mixture of domestic traffic with the traffic normally coming from the international border or where a major metropolitan area is located

between the proposed location and the border.!" .

In the Fifth Circuit, which includes Texas, in order for a checkpoint to merit thc designation of "border equivalent checkpoint," the government must demonstrate with "reasonable certainty" that the traffic passing through the checkpoint is "international in character" and the checkpoint intercepts "no more than a negligible number of domestic travelers. e u Officers should be familiar with any "functional equivalent" within their jurisdiction.!" The "functional equivalent" caveat is an exception to the general rules applicable to arrests, searches, and seizures that do not occur at the border. If there is any question whether the particular area is a "functional equivalent," an officer should apply the reasonable suspicion and probable cause standards for searches and seizures that are applicable to interior locations.

d. Etflly of Lands Within 25 Miles 1Ij' Border

Under section 287(a)(3) of the Act, immigration officers may enter private lands, but not dwellings, within 25 miles from any external boundary of the United States for the purpose of patrolling the border to prevent the illegal entry of aliens into the United States, The regulations define the phrase "patrolling the border 10 prevent the illegal entry of aliens into the United States" as "conducting such activities as are customary, or reasonable and necessary, to prevent the Illegal entry of aliens into the United States." 8 C.F.R. § 2R7.1(J).

INS Operations Instructions (OIs) require that whenever possible immigration officers shall inform the owner or occupant of private lands that they propose to avail themselves of their power of access to those lands. If a direct challenge is made of the officer's authority, the matter should immediately be brought to the attention of the officer's supervisor. In most cases consent will be given in advance for extended periods; if not, and after all methods of persuasion have failed, including efforts by personal interview audthe placing of the landholder on notice of the law by registered mail, officers may, if absolutely necessary, gain access to areas within the 25 mile area by the most expeditious means. This is an extreme measure. and is to be resorted to only on the direction of a supervisory officer after careful consideration. If damaged, fences and gates should be repaired immediately and precautions taken to avoid further injury to the property. In

For Official Use Only

1II. 10

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: TIle Law of A rrest, Search. and Seizure for Immignuion Officers

6. Checkpoints

The Border Patrol conducts two types of inland traffic-checking operations: checkpoints and roving patrols. Border Patrol agents may lawfully stop motorists at checkpoints located away from the border to determine the citizenship of the vehicle's occupants. In United States v. Martlnez-Fuerte, the Supreme Court established constitutional guidelines for checkpoint stops and searches. The inquiry must be brief and limited to the immigration status of the occupants of the vehicle and the only permissible search is a "plain view" inspection to ascertain whether there are any concealed illegal aliens.'" Absent consent, a more in-depth search of the occupant or the vehicle requires probable .cause. uv

Probable cause can be developed by the agent's questioning of the occupants and observation of their appearance. '" Probable cause concerning the existence of contraband may also be developed through observation of material in plain view of the agent. Agents' observations which have been held to support searches include situations where an agent observed marijuana debris on the floor of a vehicle and smelled tile distinctive odor of marijuana.!" Observation of marijuana seeds on the floor and nervousness of the driver were found sufficient to sustain a search for contraband.!" and the Fifth Circuit has held that the aroma of marijuana alone was snfficient to justify a Border Patrol agent's search of a vehicle,"

Where agents have probable cause to search at a checkpoint. no warrant need bc obtained because, as discussed below, a vehicle is a traditional exception to the warrant requirement.

In Martinez-Fuerte, the Supreme Court distinguished a checkpoint from a "roving patrol. II At a checkpoint, the situation is controlled and causes the individual traveller less anxiety. Roving patrols, on the other hand, often operate at night and on seldom-traveled roads, presenting the possibility of frightening motorists. In validating the operation at the San Clemente checkpoint. the Court considered the government's need to control the influx of illegal aliens, the characteristics of the operation, including the use of warning lights and signs. the minimal nature of the intrusion, and the routine and regularized manner in which stops were effected. TIle Court found that this type of routine stop did not require reasonable suspicion ." •

ln order to ensure that Border Patrol checkpoints continue to withstand challenges, all checkpoints should be operated in accordance with the instructions set forth in the Border Patrol Handbook:" Except for the absence of permanence, INS policy requires that temporary checkpoints should be operated in a manner as close as possible to permanent Checkpoints to avoid legal difficulties.

7. Vehicle Stops and Searches

In United Slates v, Brignonl-Ponce.:" the Supreme Court held that an INS officer on roving patrol may stop a car briefly and investigate suspicious circumstances where the officer

for Offlclal Use Only

1lI II

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law cf Arrest, Search, and Sei:l1irefor lmmignuion QjJicers

has a reasonable suspicion that a particular vehicle contains aliens who may be illegally in the United States. 14' Though 110t exclusive, circumstances which have been acknowledged to be pertinent in justifying vehicle stops include:

(I)

the characteristics of the area in which a 'vehicle is encountered, such as its proximity to the border, tile usual patterns of traffic on the particular road, previous experience with alien traffic, and information about recent illegal border crossingsr'"

(2)

the driver's or passenger's behavior, including erratic driving or obvious attempts to evade officers; , ..

(3)

aspects of the vehicle, e.g. , station wagons with large compartments for folddown scats or spare tires are frequently used for transporting concealed aliens; the vehicle may appear to be heavily loaded or to have an extraordinary number of passengers; or the officers may observe persons trying to hide;""

(4)

appearance of the occupants, including whether their mode of dress andlor haircut appear foreign;

(5) information from outside sources such as reports of illegal border crossings, policc reports, or informant information; and

(6) an officer's experience and training, including previous experience with alien vehicle traffic and the inferences and deductions of a trained officer.'"

The circumstances which lead to the stop may appear innocent to the untrained observer. ,,, However, these circumstances must be considered in totality and not in isolation. ,"

Once the vehicle is lawfully stopped, the officer may question the driver and occupants concerning their citizenship and immigration status and ask for an explanation of the suspicious circumstances. In addition, when the vehicle is stopped, the officer may also order the occupants to exit the vehicle for questioning," request consent to search the vehicle,''' and examine the exterior and any portion of the interior of the vehicle which is open to view. Any further arrest or search must be based 011 consent or probable cause in order. to comply with the fourth amendment.

Further detention of vehicles may be justified based upon a minimal SUSpICIOn of narcoties trafficking. Courts have found that a brief detention for the purpose of utilizing a narcotics dog to sniff the exterior of a vehicle was reasonable under the fourth amendment. '"

For Official Use Only

ru - 12

JIlnuary1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of Arrest, Search, and Seizurefor Immigratlon QjJicel!

INS officers on roving patrol may not stop a vehicle unless they are aware of specific articulable facts, together with rational inferences from those facts, that reasonably support the suspicion that the vehicle contains aliens who may be illegally in the country.!"

8. Inventory Searches of Seized vehicles

Warrantless searches of vehicles for the purpose of making an inventory of the personal effects of the contents of the vehicle after a suspect has been taken into custody are reasonable under the fourth amendment. ". "Inventory" searches of properly seized vehicles are reasonable and do not require probable cause where the purpose is not investigative, but rather: (I) to protect the police or the public from potential damages; (2) to protect the police against claims of lost property; or (3) to protect the owner's property while it is in police custody. The inventory search cannot be used as a subterfuge for a criminal investigative search. '"

An inventory search not made on-the-scene, but rather, for example, after the vehicle has been moved to an impoundment lot, is also reasonable under the fourth amendment.!" Where the law enforcement agency maintains a standard practice of conducting an "inventory' search, such a search is reasonable for fourth amendment purposes.!"

9. Container Searches

The general rule is that search of a closed container requires consent or a warrant based upon probable cause.!" Under the vehicle exception, law enforcement officers who have lawfully stopped an automobile and who have probable cause to believe that contraband is concealed either specifically within a container or somewhere else within the car may conduct a warrantless search of any area within the vehicle that may conceal contraband.!" This area includes closed containers located within the car as well as areas of the car that may require permanent damage to reach, such as slashing the upholstery to reveal the contraband.!" The Supreme Court has recently reversed two decisions which held that officers could not conduct a warrantless search of a closed container in a vehicle unless they had probable cause to. search the entire car. res In Califomta v. Acevedo, the Court held that law enforcement officers do not need to obtain a warrant in order to search a container in a car "simply because they lack probable cause to search the entire ear. ,,'" In such cases, the scope of the search is limited to any container which could reasonably be believed to contain the coutraband. Probable cause to believe that undocumented aliens are being transported in a van will not justify warrantless search of a suitcase. However, the suitcase may be searched under an "inventory search" if appropriate. '01 If officers have probable cause to believe an individual is transporting drugs or other contraband in the vehicle or in a container within the vehicle, tile officers may conduct a warrantless search of every part of the vehicle and its contents, including all containers and packages that may' conceal the object of the search. '" The object of the search defines the scope of the search. '"

For Official Use Only

111 • 13

January 1993

United States Department 01' Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: Thel.awofArrest, Search, and Seizure fur Immigration Officers

10. Other Exceptions to the Warrant Requirement

A warrant is not required before a search or seizure in the following additional circumstances,

a. Evidence ill Plain View

When a police or INS officer while lawfully present uses one or more of his or her senses to make a detection,that detection is not a search within the fourth amendment. If an item" is immediately recognized as seizable evidence or contraband without the necessity of picking lip or touching the object to examine it, an officer who is lawfully present may seize the item without a warrant, '70 For example, an officer may gain a lawful vantage point while executing a warrant to search a given area for specified object, and in the course of the search the officer may observe in plain view some other article of incriminati ng character; or while in hot pursuit of a fleeing suspect an officer may observe contraband; or an officer in a public place or open area or standing on a sidewalk may smell the manufacturing of LSD, overhear the plotting of a criminal conspiracy, or sec marijuana plants growing in a backyard.!"

In the "plain smell" context no search occurs when an officer, lawfully present at a certain place, detects odors emanating from private premises, from a vehicle, or from some personal effects such as luggage. on The courts divide on whether the plain smell doctrine permits an officer to lightly squeeze luggage in order to detect the odor within the luggage. m

A case still comes within the plain view/senses doctrine when officers' observations/detections are aided by flashlights, binocularsv carneras, or other common enhancement devices.:" In determining whether a ease fits within the plain senses doctrine, the court will consider the degree of sophistication of the equipment and the extent to which the incriminating objects or actions were out of the line of normal sight from contiguous areas where passersby or others might have made the obscrvation.!" For example, wiretapping invades privacy beyond that permitted under the plain hearing doctrine and requires a warrant;

Plain view allows an officer to view the contraband or incriminating article. To gain access to and seize that article, there must be either a warrant, consent, exigent circumstances, or some other exception to the warrant requirement. '" If an object is observed on the person of an individual, the seizure of such article first requires an officer to either obtain a warrant, seize the article pursuant to a search incident to arrest, or justify the warrantless seizure under exigent clrcumstances.!"

b. Open Fie/ds

Open fields and any unoccupied or undeveloped area outside a dwelling or its curtilage may be searched without a warrant under the "open fields' exception to the warrant rule, ''''

Fut Official Use Onty

Ill- 14

January t993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: TheUllVoj'Arr(!.w, Search. and Seizure for tmmignutan Officers

No reasonable privacy expectation exists in "open fields" even if surrounded by a fence. A fenced area is not significant unless it constitutes a "curti lage, "'" The area constituting curtilage depends on: (1) the proximity of the area to the home, (2) whether the area is enclosed in the same fence that surrounds the home, (3) what type of activity the area is used for, and (4) the steps taken to guard the area from observation.'" "Trespass" by law enforcement officers is permissible onto "open fields" when the performance of duty so requires."

However, in order to enter onto thc premises of a farm or other outdoor agricultural operation fOI the purpose of questioning persons believed to be aliens regarding their right to be or remain in the United States, the officer must first obtain either the consent of the owner or his or her agent or obtain a properly executed warrant.'" The warrant exceptions for exigent circumstances are also applicable in these instances. IS'

This limitation on the "open field'i-doctrine does not apply when Ole officer is entering onto the land for a purpose other than questioning persons believed to he aliens. Thus, the officer may enter land to obtain consent or for any other permissible purpose. An 'officer may conduct surveillance of activities occurring on farms or other outdoor agricultural operations.

c, Canine "Sniffs"

Generally, a canine sniff of an inanimate object such as luggage in a public place does not constitute a fourth amendment search or seizure. ,,.. In evaluating the propriety of a canine sniff as a law enforcement tool, the courts have balanced the intrusiveness of the sniff against the reasonableness of any privacy interest in the area to be sniffed. IS' For example, canines may be used to sni ff the exterior of vehicles during immigration inspection at checkpoints or ports of entry'" The use of canines to sniff the outside of a vehicle in a public place is not a fourth amendment search." Courts have upheld the legality of canine sniffs, undertaken without reasonable suspicion of the exterior of luggage in possession of a common carrier or the outside of lockers in a public transportation terminal.!"

Canines may not be used in areas where an individual has a heightened expectation of privacy such as the body, clothing worn by a person, or personal property while it is being. worn by or held in the physical possession of a person, absent reasonable susprcion or an applicable exception to the warrant requirement." Similarly, the lise of canines to sniff dwellings or the area immediately surrounding a dwelling ("curtilage") requires a warrant, or a recognized exception to the warrant requirement. ,,. Any seizure or detention of an object for exposure to a sniff by a canine must be supported by an officer's reasonable suspicion that the object is or contains contraband and such detention must be brief in length, during which time thc officers must diligently pursue the investigation. '"

A positive alert by a properly trained canine generally constitutes sufficient probable cause to support a search or seizure.:" However, unless the situation falls within a recognized

Fur Official Use Only

III - t5

January 1993

United States Department of Justlce Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: 171e Law oj Arrest, Search, and Seiture for Immigration Qfficers

warrant exception, the officer must still obtain a warrant before conducting a search or making an arrest.:"

C. ADMINISTRATIVE SUBPOENAS

Certain INS officers are authorized to issue administrative subpoenas pursuant to section 235(a) of the Act.:"

Pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 287.4(a), certain INS officers may issue a subpoena rcqulring the production of records. and evidence for use in criminal or civil investigations or, if prior to the commencement of proceedings, for use in proceedings. If proceedings have commenced, a subpoena must be issued by an immigration judge. Pursuant to 8 C.P.R. 287.4(d), the INS may seek the aid of a United States District Court if a witness refuses to honor the administrative subpoena.

In addition to an officer's authority to issue subpoenas under section 235(a) of the Act, it is also possible for officers, once a complaint has been filed, to seek the issuance of subpoenas from administrative law judges under the provisions of sections 274A(e)(2) [8 U.S.C. § J324a(e)(2)] and 274C{d) [8 U.S.C. § 1324c(d)] of the Act. Issuance of these subpoenas for employer sanctions and civil document fraud cases should be discussed with the District Counsel.

The fourth amendment requires that administrative subpoenas be sufficiently limited in scope, relevant in purpose, and specific in directive so that compliance will not be unreasonably burdensome. , ss

For Official Use Only

lIT· 16

Janllluy1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M ·69: The Law of Arrest, Search, and Seizure/or Immigmtioll Officers

CHAPTER IV

SEIZURE AND }'OIU'EITURE OF CONVEYANCE

Pursuant to section 274(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1324(b), any conveyance, including vehicles, vessels, aircraft, and any appurtenances connected with such conveyance, may be seized by officers having probable cause to believe that the conveyance has been used in violation of section 274(a) of the Act. Such conveyances may be seized without a warrant if circumstances ex-ist where a warrant is not constitutionally required. For example, where the conveyance is mobile and likely to be unavailable for later execution of a warrant, a warrant is not required.

The officer's report should articulate facts to support each element of the particular criminal offense which forms the basis for the seizure. Section 274(a) of the Act describes five separate criminal offenses including bringing to, bringing into, transporting within, harboring, and encouraging entry of illegal aliens, and any attempts to commit these violations.

* Section 274(a)(I)(A) prohibits bringing a person known to be an alien to the United States at a place other than a designated port of entry or place designated by the Commissioner.

* Section 274(a)(\)(B) prohibits transportation within the United States of an alien either knowingly Of in reckless disregard of the fact that the alien has illegally come to, entered, or remains in the United States, where such transportation furthers the alien's illegally coming to, entering, or remaining in thc United States.

* Section 274(a)(1)(C) bars concealing, harboring, or shielding of an alien either knowingly or in reckless disregard of the fact that the alien has illegally come to, entered, or remains in the United States.

* Section 274(a)(\)(D) proscribes encouraging or inducing an alien to come to, enter, or reside in the United States either knowingly or in reckless disregard of the fact that such coming to, entry, or residence is Of will be unlawful.

* Section 214(a)(2) makes it illegal to bring an alien to tile United States either knowingly or in reckless disregard of the fact that the alien has not received prior official authorization to come to, enter or reside in the United States.

Since each of these offenses requires knowledge of either alienage or illegal status on the part of someone other than the transported alien, the mere presence of an illegal alien in a conveyance does not by itself provide the necessary probable cause for a seizure.

For Official Use Only

IV· 1

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

. Following a lawful seizure of a conveyance and after due notice of seizure to the

registered owner and any known lienholder, any person having a legally cognizable interest in a seized ;o~veya~~.lllay present evidence to the INS to establish either: (1) that the conveyance was not seizablc; i.e., there was no probable cause to believe a violation of section 274 of the Act occurred; (2) that the conveyance is not "forfeitable"; i.e., that title to the seized cOl1Veyanc~ m~y no~ pass to th~ United Statcs: sin~e the owner was not involved in or privy to the smuggling; or (.3) lho~gh title to the vehicle IS forfeited to the United States, the vehicle ~hould be returned to the interested party based upon mitigating circumstances or because the interested party waS,~lot ~irec~~y involved i~ or privy to. the smuggling. Accordingly, a forfeited conveyan~e may be remitted to a bank, Iienholder, or registered owner who pays seizure costs and pro~l~ not t,?retufl1 the conveyance to any named culpable party. Similarly, a forfeiture may be mitigated m favor of a culpable party to whom the INS returns the vehicle in exchange for payment of a monetary fine and seizure costs.

In addi~on, an i~tereste~ party may seek judicial review of any seizure under section 274 ?f the Act by timely filing a claim and a bond in accordance with 8 C.F.R .. § 274.11. The case Is.th~n transmltted.to the U.S. Attorney for institution of judicial forfeiture proceedings in U.S. District Court naml~lg the conveyance as the defendant. All cases in which the appraised value ?f ~h~ conveyance IS greater than $100,000.00 must be so referred to the U.S. Attorney for judicial forfeiture proceedings, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 274.12.

For further information, please consult the INS A~set Forfeiture Office Manual on Conveyance Seizures.

For Official Usc Only

IV ·2

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: TheLalVofArresi, Search, and Seiwrefor Immigration qJficers

CHAPTER V

INS UNDERCOVER OPERATIONS

The Attorney General issued Guidelines on INS Undercover Operations, effective March 19, 1984. An "undercover operation" is defined as "any investigative operation in which an undercover employee or cooperating private individual is used." All INS undercover operations fall into one of three categories under the Guidelines: (I) those undercover operations which must be authorized by the INS Commissioner with the concurrence of the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division; (2) those which must be authorized by the appropriate Headquarters program.'" and (3) those which must be authorized by the appropriate District Director or Chief Patrol Agent. The Guidelines also authorize the District Director or Chief Patrol Agent to approve undercover operations in the first two categories in emergency situations involving protection of life or substantial property, to apprehend or identify a fleeing offender, or to prevent the destruction of evidence or other grave harm.

In general, the greater the risk of harm or intrusiveness, the higher the approval level required. Tile Guidelines require periodic consultation by INS personnel with the U.S. Attorney or Strike Force Chief during the course of all undercover operation, no matter who has approved its implementation. The Guidelines also create an Undercover Operations Review Committee comprised of INS personnel and Criminal Division attorneys to review and make determinations on operations requiring Headquarters approval.

The Guidelines describe the manner in which application should be made for approval of an undercover operation. The guidelines are being revised. If you have any questions regarding the applicability of the guidelines, contact a supervisor or legal counsel.

For Official Use Only

V 1

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Lawof'Arresi, Search, and Seizure!orlmmigmtioll Officers

CHAPTER VI

RELATIONS WITH LOCAL AND STATE ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES

It is Department of Justice policy for INS officers to cooperate with local and state law enforcement officers who notify the INS of suspected violations under state law. This policy includes INS officers assisting in enforcing local law where the matter is serious and the need to act is imperative. Should an on-duty agent happen to witness a felony or violent misdemeanor cognizable under state law, the INS expects that the agent will take reasonable action as a law enforcement officer to prevent the crime and/or apprehend the violator. Unless specifically authorized as a peace officer under state law, the agent's authority in these situations is that of an ordinary citizen. The Iimi tations and liabilities associated with such action are defined in state law. INS officers must be thoroughly familiar with the applicable state laws of their jurisdiction. Further, this policy does not apply to routine traffic violations or other minor offenses. The INS will fully support an agent's reasonable actions in the above situations, and the agent will be regarded as acting within the scope of federal employment and official duties. (See Representation of INS Employees, Chapter XI).

Further, INS agents may engage in joint operations with local officers that are expected to uncover violations of both immigration and local laws. The INS is regularly asked to assist local officers in tracking and locating lost persons or suspected criminals; INS agents will continue to assist such local enforcement efforts; however, INS officers may make arrests for non-immigration state criminal offenses only to the extent that the individual state laws permit them to do so as private citizens. As noted previously, state law may also provide peace officer status to federal officers which would also provide the right to make arrests for non-immigration offenses. However, such authority should only be exercised in conformity with INS policy. In working with local police, INS officers should make it clear that the INS officers are solely responsible for immigration law determinations. Local police are responsible for enforcement of local laws.

The following guidelines are to assist the INS in carrying out the policy of mutual cooperation:

(I) INS officers may not direct, propose, or request that state or local law enforcement operations be carried out when these operations will be beneficial only to the INS;

For Offici.l Use Only

V[ - 1

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Lawof'Arrest; Search, and Selzure finImmigration Officers

(2)

IOi!lt operations may not be conducted unless there are independent and articulable facts that clearly indicate that the involvement of both the INS and another law enforcement entity is required;

Local autho~tie~ should be consulted whenever an INS operation is likely to uncover a violation of state or local codes or result in, for example, a need for crowd or traffic control;

(3)

(4)

Information fumishedyursuant to legalization applications cannot be examined by anyone other than officers or employees of the Department of Justice. This information c~n?ot be used e.xcept to make a determination on the application or for federal criminal prosecutions for fraud in connection with the application; 197

Inrorn~ation on the Form T-9 may not be used except to enforce provision of Title 8, United States Code or to prosecute violations of sections 1001 1028 1546 and 1621 of title 18, United States Code.!" ' '.'

(5)

For Offici.' Use Only

January 1993

United Stares Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: 111e Law of'Arrast, Search, and SeilJirejor Jmmigmtiol1 Officels

CHAPTER VII

DETAINERS

Section 287(d) of the Act mandates that the INS make a prompt determination whether to issue a detainer when an alien is arrested by Federal, State or local law enforcement officers for a controlled substances violation. The provisions of this section are triggered if the official:

(1) has reason to believe that the alien may not have been lawfully admitted into the United States, or is otherwise not lawfully present in the United States;

(2)

expeditiously informs an appropriate INS officer of the arrest and of facts concerning the status of the alien; and

(3) requests a l?rompt determination.

If a detainer under these provisions is issued and the alien is not otherwise detained by Federal, State, or local officials, the Attorney General must expeditiously take custody of the alien.

Detainers may also be placed against any other alien who is amenable to exclusion and deportation proceedings under any provision of the law.'" Detainers may only be issued by immigration officers pursuant to 8 C.F.R. §§ 242.2 and 287.7. A detainer is lodged by filing Form 1-247 "Immigration Detainer - Notice of Action by Immigration and Naturalization Service." This document is merely a notice to the institution and a request for thirty (30) days notice prior [0 release of the alien from custody, It does 1I0t limit the institution's discretion ill any decision affecting the offender's classification, work and quarters assignment or other treatment which he would otherwise receive, and this is specifically stated 011 the face of the notice. Unlike detainers issued pursuant to section 287(d) of the Act, these notices do not require the INS to take custody of the alien upon release from custody,

The provisions of 8 C.P.R. § 242.2(a) also authorize detainers to be issued in two other circumstances. Telephonic detainers may be placed by officers. These detainers must be confirmed in writing within twenty-four (24) hours of issuance. These detainers must contain substantially the same language in the Form 1-247. They are also merely a notice to the institution and a request that INS be notified prior to release of the individual. This provides INS officers the opportunity to question the individual prior to release to determine whether he or she is a deportable alien who should be arrested.

For Official Use Only

VlI-t

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M ·69: TheLawo/Arrest, Search, and Seizure/or Immigration Qificers

. T~mpora? det~ntion o~ an alien can be obtained at the Service reqnest.= This "detainer" IS .unlike those prevI?usly ?lSCUSSe? because it is not a mere notice and request for information pnor to ~el~ase '. l1~lS section applies only when the individual is no longer subject to detention by the cnmlllalJustlc~ agency. It.authorizes the alien to be maintained in custody for "a eriod not to .excecd forty-eight hours, III order to permit assumption of custody by the Service .. '" ~ detamerplaced under this subsection is an arrest which must be supported by probable cause 1 hese detainers shoul~ be followed by an Order to Show Cause. Since it is difficult to establish th~~ these aliens are hkely. to abscond before a warrant can be obtained to support an arrest Wit ~ut warrant == section 287(a)(~) of the Act, a warrant of arrest should be issued and served upon the alien. EJ(C~I a~ prov~ded in 8 C.p.R. § 242.2(a)(4), a detainer does not bind the INS to any fiscal responsibility until custody is actually assumed by the Service.

For Official Use Only

VII - 2

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: 'Ihe Law of Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

CHAPTER VIII

POSSIBLE CONSEQUENC:&'o;; OF IMPROPER ACTIONS BY IMMlGRATION OFFICERS

1'\. EXCLUSION OF EVIDENCE

I. Criminal Prosecutions

The fourth amendment guarantees the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures. Any evidence secured through an unreasonable search or seizure may be barred from use in any subsequent criminal prosecution. This bar on the lise of such evidence is known as the "exclusionary rule." The fourth amendment guarantees the people's right to privacy. The courts have fashioned the exclusionary rule to protect that right and to deter overzealous law enforcement officers. Convictions based on unlawful searches and seizures are often reversed on the basis of the exclusionary rule.f"

The exclusionary rule applies to evidence obtained in violation of other constitutional and statutory rights such as the sixth amendment right 10 counsel and the fifth and fourteenth amendment rights to due process of law.

2. Administrative (Civil) Proceedings

The Supreme Court has held that the exclusionary rule does 1I0t apply. to civil deportation proceedings.:" Nevertheless, the Board ofImmigration Appeals has excluded evidence seized in violation of the due process requirement of the fifth amendment where the. officer's conduct was outrageous.?" In addition, illegally seized evidence which is admissible in deportation proceedings will remain subject to the exclusionary rule in any subsequent criminal prosecution.

Although illegally seized evidence may be admissible in civil deportation proceedings, the Department of Justice in no way condones illegal searches. On the contrary, officers who conduct unconstitutional searches may still be subject to disciplinary action, civil suit, and criminal prosecution. If there is any doubt about the legality or propriety of a proposed plan of action, the safest course is to obtain advance instructions from a supervisor or legal counsel. This can be done by telephone or radio where prompt action is imperative.

3. Effect on Validity 0/ Proceedings

If a search or seizure has been made in violation of the Constitution, that fact alone will not necessarily invalidate criminal. proceedings. If there is untainted evidence .. not illegally

-------------------------------------------------------~~-----

For Official US<! Only

VIlI 1

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

Mo69: TheLmvoJArrei.t, Search, and SeizureJorlmmigration Officers

seized a,nd not dcriv,ed from an illegal search or seizure 00 upon which to base a conviction, the proceedlng~ ar: valid and need not be terminated>' The Supreme Court has also ruled that under certain CIrcumstances, a "reasonable good-faith exception" to the exclusionary I ' ap~ly wl:e:e illegally seized eVid:nce is acquired pursuant to a defective search w~r~~ This decision recognizes l~at an Improper warrantless search cannot be deterred where the officer has no reason to believe that there has been any impropriety,

B. CIVIL LIABILITY

I. Personal Liability oj Federal Agents

,Th;" Supreme Court, in Bivens v, Six Unknown NamedAgents of the Federal Bureau oj N(lrcoflcs: h,eld t~at violation of the fourth amendment by a federal agent acting under color of authority gives nse to a cause of action for damages based on unconstitutional conduct.

. . Federal 0:n.cials generally are entitled to absolute immunity only in those .exceptional

sltuatlons,.~here It IS demonstra.tcd tha~ absolute,il11nllln~ty is essential for the conduct of public busI?e.ss. . Other f~deral officials entitled to absolute Immunity arc: (I) hearing examiners or admmlstrahv~ law Judges when they are performing judicial acts; (2) agency offictals who perform functions a?alogoll~ to those ofa prosecutor for theirparts ill the decision to initiate or CO~ltImle a proceedmg. subject to a~ency adjudication; and (3) agency attorneys presenting ~vlden~e at agency hea~mgs. Oth:rwlse, federal executive officials are entitled only to qualified ,unmulllty for those acuons taken III the performance of their official duties.

. Federal officia.ls are shielded from liability for civil damages if their conduct does not

VIOlate "cJea~z esta~li~hed" .statutory or constitutional rights' which a reasonable person would have known. This .IS an important reason fOT officers to remain familiar with the laws of arrest, search, and seizure.

. !>epa~tment of Justice policy also permits, in the discretion of the Attorney General, IIldel:nnrficatton of Department employees who suffer adverse money judgments as a result of official acts."~ This provides additional protection to officers who perform reasonable actions

under often difficult Circumstances necessitatin? split-second judgments, .

Congress has also recognized that federal officials merit additional legal proteetion and therefon:: ~nacted the ."Fedc~1 Employees Liability Reform and Tort Compensation Act." While not provI.dmg protectton ag~mst unreasonable violations of constitutional rights, such as the socalled. Bivens actions previously mentioned, this does protect officers for violations of Ia res~ll1ng from actions taken within the scope of. employment."! This statute substitutes t~ United States as the defendant in lieu of the officer.

For Official Use Only

VIIl 0 2

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

Mo69: The Law of Arrest, Search, and Seaurefor Immigration Officers

Officers may also wish to obtain personal liability insurance. This insurance is comparatively inexpensive. It provides peace of mind and eliminates the need to rely upon discretionary determinations to provide legal counselor to indemnify against adverse judgments.

2. Liability of the United States for Malley Damages

Since 28 U.S.C. § 2680(h) was amended in March 1974, the United States has been amenable to civil actions on claims of assault, battery, false imprisonment, false arrest, abuse of process, or malicious prosecution because of acts or omissions of investigative or law enforcement personnel acting within the scope of their office or employment under circumstances where the United States, if a private person, would be liable to the claimant in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred.t" If a plaintiff wins a judgment against the United States, subsequent suits against the officers in their individual capacity for the same subject matter are barred by 28 U.S.C. § 2676. Judgment against an individual officer does not preclude later action against the United States. However, doublerecovery is not permissible. '"

If the actions of an officer are outside the scope of employment, the action wonld be against that officer in his or her personal capacity. The United Stales could not be sued.?"

C. CRIMINAL UABIUTY

An INS officer who acts improperly in performance of assigned duties may risk prosecution for violation of state or federal criminal laws. Such crimes include: criminal trespass, breaking and entering, harassment, assault and battery, kidnapping, homicide, maliciously procuring a search warrant, liability for traffic violations, exceeding authority in executing a search warrant, searching a dwelling without a search warrant, maliciously and without reasonable cause searching any other building or property without a search warrant, and depriving an inhabitant of the United States of constitutional or other legal rights, privileges, or immunities under color of law.

D. DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS

For any of the improper actions discussed above, whether any civil or criminal proceedings are commenced, the INS officer may be subject to agency disciplinary action with possible penalties ranging from an official letter of reprimand to removal from employment, which may bar future federal employment.

For Official Use Only

vm 3

JWll",'Y 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: 1111! Law of Arrest, Search, and Seaurefor Immigration Offtcers

CHAPTER IX

REPRESENTATION OF INS EMPLOYEES SUEn IN THEIR INDIVIDUAL CAPACITIES

A. DEPARTMENT POLICY

It is the policy of the Department of Justice to represent a federal employee who is sued in a stale criminal action or in a state or federal civil action or subpoenaed in his or her individual capacity if it is considered in the best interests of the United States.!"

Representation by the Department is never available ill a federal criminal proceeding or investigation or in an agency disciplinary proceedlng.:" Representation by the Department is not available in a civil case if the employee is the subject of a federal criminal investigation for the same act or acts.'" The Department in its discretion may provide a private attorney to the employee at government expense, provided that no decision has been made to seek an indictment against the employee.'"

Every INS employee sued in his or her individual capacity has tile right to hire private counsel at his or her expense and the Department has 110 right to intervene (except perhaps in an amicus capacity) unless requested.

The Department criteria for personal representation of an employee who is personally sued for damages or the subject of state criminal proceedings or the subject of a congressional or judicial subpoena are:

(I) TI1C employee's actions must reasonably appear to have been performed within the scope of the federal employment; and

(2) It must be in the interest of the United States to provide the requested representation.

B. PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING REPRESENTATION

Every INS officer or employee who is sued in his or her individual capacity or is the subject of a subpoena, and who believes that he or she needs and qualifies for Department representation, must request it in writing.

The representation request must be submitted to the Office of the General Counsel with a copy of the summons and complaint or other legal papers. The request should contain answers to the following questions:

For Offlcial Use Only

IX-l

J an uary1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law cf Arrest, Search, and Seizure/or Immigration Officers

(I) Were you personally served'!

(2) If so, what was the time, place, and manner of service?

(3) If not, was anyone served who was authorized by you to accept service?

(4) Do you in good faith believe that you were acting. within the scope of your employment?

(5) If so, what is the basis foryour belief?

The offic;er or employee also should provide answers to tile allegatioos in the complaint that rel,ate to him or her and state what he or she actually did with regard to the actions compl~med of. ~1,lC ~u~t f?~ r,epresentation should be accompanied by a properly executed DOl I orm. 399.. I he CIVl~ DIVlSlOn of the Department of Justice adjudkates all requests for representation WIth the advice and recommendajlon of the General Counsel.

C. ATIORNEY-CLIENl' PRIVILEGE

Department of Justice attorneys who undertake representation of individual clients ~r~o!lally ,~!I~, for money damages have a full attorney-etten] relationship with those lIJd~vlduals, 1,IlIS also extends to all DOl attorneys, which includes INS attorneys who review ?f transm~t a. r':luest for represenranon, The attorney-client relationship commences at such POUlt as the. individual requests representation and applies to. communications made for the purpose of sec.unng such representation. No material contained in the request nor confidences exchanged dunn~ the proees~ may be used against the individual defendant in agency disciplinary Of other proceedings, even If the DOJ declines representation.

. When an IN~ employee requests DOJ representation, it is recommended that he or she submit t~e r~llest directly to tile appropriate District Counsel and. clearly mark on each written comll~umcatl?n that the information is subject to the attorney-client privilege. The material submitted with the request for representation must not be provided to anyone except legal counselor the attorney-client privilege may be lost.

D.

INDEMNIFICATION POLICY

. ~n INS defendant employee may apply for indemnification upon the entry of an adverse ver~lct,Judgmcnt, or other monetary award. The indemnifiClition policy of the Department of J usttce IS as follows:

For Official Use Only

IX -2

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: Ti1eLawo/Al'l'est, Search, and Seizure /01' Immigration Officers

(1) The Department of Justice may indemnify the Department of Justice employee, for any verdict, judgment, or other monetary award which is rendered against such employee, provided that the conduct giving rise to the verdict, judgment, or award was taken within the scope of employment and that such indemnification is in the interest of the United States, as determined by the Attorney General or his or her designee,

(2) The Department of Justice may settle or compromise a personal damages claim against a Department of Justice employee by the payment of available funds, at any time, provided the alleged conduct giving rise to the personal damages claim

was taken within the of employment and that such settlement or

compromise is in the interest the United States, as determined by the Attorney

General or his or her designee.

(3) Absent exceptional circumstances as determined by the Attorney General or designee, the Department will not entertain a request either to agree 10 indemnify or to settle a personal damages claim before entry of award,

(4) The Department of Justice employee may request indemnification to satisfy a verdict, judgment, or award entered against the employee. The employee shall submit a written request, with appropriate documentation including copies of the verdict, judgment, award, or settlement proposal, if on appeal, to the head of his or her employing component, who shall then submit to the appropriate Assistant Attorney General, in a timely manner, a recommended disposition of the request. Where appropriate, the Assistant Attorney General shall seek the views of the United States Attorney; in all such cases the Civil Division shall be consulted. The Assistant Attorney General shall forward the request, the employing component's recommendation, and the Assistant Attorney General's recommendation to the Attorney General for decision.

(5) Any payment under this section either to indemnify a Department of Justice employee or to settle a personal damages claim shall be contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds of the employing component of tile Department of Justice.

E.

PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING INDEMNIFICATION

As with requests for representation, requests for indemnification should be submitted 10 the office of the General Counsel. They may be transmitted through the Regional Counsel, with the District Counsel being the point of local contact, Pursuant to Department policy, this request can be made only after entry of a judgment against the officer.

For Official Usc Only

IX -3

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The l.aw of Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

NOTES

1. See 8 C.F.R. § 3.1(g).

2. United States v, Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U.S. 873 (1975).

3. 57 Fed. Reg. 47011 (October 14. 1992).

4. For an extensive and substantive discussion on criminal prosecutions of immigration violations. see THE UNITED STATES ATIORNBYS' MANUAL, title 9, chap. 73 (Oct. 1, 1988).

5. Zepeda v. INS, 753 F.2d 719 (9th Cir. 1985).

6. Carroll v. United States, 267 U.S. 132. 154 (1925).

7. Florida v, Bostwick. m S. Ct. 2382 (1991); INS v . Delgado. 466 U.S. 210,215 (1984); Florida v. Royer. 460 U.S. 491, 497 (1983) (Plurality opinion); United States v. Mendenhall. 446 U.S. 544 (1980); Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 19 n.I6 (1968).

8. Delgado, 466 U.S. at 215; Royer, 460 U.S. at 497-98; Zepeda v: INS. 753 F.2d 719 (9th eir. 1985); United States v. Alvarez-Sanchez, 774 F.2d 1036, 1040 (11th Cir. 1985); CuevasOrtega v. INS, 588 F.2d 1274, 1277 (9th Cir. 1979); Cordon de Ruano v. INS, 554 F.2d 944, 946 (9th Cir. 1977). 8uJ see La Duke v. Nelson. 762 F.2d 1318, 1329 (9th Cir, 1985) (holding that the actions of immigration officers in conducting a farm ranch check precluded a finding of voluntary consent).

9. De/gada. 466 U.S. at 215; Royer, 460 U.S. at 502; Mendenhall, 446 U.S. at 554.

10. Florida v. Bostwick, !II S. Ct. 2382 (1991); Royer. 460 U.S. at 519 nA.

11. United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1 (1989); Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. I, 27 (1968); United States v, Sugrim, 732 F.2d 25,28 (2d Cir. 1984); United States v. Reyes-Oropesa, 596 F.2d 399 (9th Cir. 1979).

12. United States v. Hensley, 469 U.S. 221 (1985); United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411,417 n.2 (1981). .

13. United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U.S. 873,884 (1975).

14. Michigan v. Long, 463 U.S. 1032, 1049·1050 (1983); Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 146-47 (1972); Terry Y. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1.23-24 (1968).

IS. Terry, 392 U.S. at 24.

For Official Use Only

N 1

JanWIt)' 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law Of Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

16. Alabama v. White, 110 S. Ct. 2412, 2415-17 (1990); United States v. Sharpe, 470 U.S. 675 (1985); United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417 (1981); United States v. Nargi, 732 F.2d 1102, 1104 (2d Or. 1984).

17. White, 110 S. Ct. at 2417; Cortez, 449 U.S .. at 417; Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U.S. at 884.

18. BrigIUJ1Ii-Ponce, 422 U.S. at 884

19. Pennsylvania v. Mimms, 434 U.S. 106 (1977); United Slates v . Hensley, 469 U.S. 221, 235 (1985).

20. Berkemer v, McCarty, 468 U.S. 420, 442 (1984).

21. United States v. Rose, 731 F.2d 1337, 1343 (8th Cit. 1984).

22. Berkemer, 468 U.S. at 437-38; Oregon v. Mathiason, 429 U.S. 492, 495 (1977); W. LAFAVE & J. IsRAEl., CRIMlNAL PROCEDURE § 6.6(C) at 290 (Student ed. 1985).

23. Min-Slley Hung v. United States, 617 F.2d 201, 202 (LOth Cit. 1980); Avila-Gallegosv. INS, 525 F.2d 666, 667 (2d Cir. 1975); Ojeda-Vinales v, INS, 523 F.2d 286 (2d Cir, 1975); United States v, Cantu, 519 F.2d 494, 496 (7th Cir.), cert. denied, 423 U.S. 1035 (1975); Au Vi Lan v. INS, 445 F.2d 217, 222 (D.C. Cit.), cen. denied, 404 U.S. 864 (1971).

24. Yam Sang Kwai v. INS, 411 F.2d 683 (D.C. Cir.), cert.denied, 396 U.S .. 877 (1969); Hon Keung Kung.v. INS, 356 F. Supp. 571, 576 (B.D. Mo. 1973).

25. United States v. Garcia, 616 F.2d 210 (5th Cit. 1(80); United States v, Hernandez-Rojas, 470 F. Supp, 1212, 1220 (E.D.N. Y.), aJf'd, 615 F.2d 1351 (2d Cit. 1979), cert. denied, 449 U.S. 864 (1980); Au Yi Lau v. INS, 445 F.2d at 223-224.

26. Hel7l<llldez-Rojas, 470 F. Supp, at 1220; Cantu, 519 F.2d at 496.

27. Min-Shey Hung v, United States, 617 F.2d 201, 202 (10th Cir, 1980); Yiu Fang Cheung v. INS, 418 F.2d 460 (D.C. Cir, 1969).

28. 8 C.F.R. § 287.3; 8 C.F.R. § 242.2(c)(2); Navia-Duran v. INS, 568 F.2d 803 (Ist Cir. 1977).

29. 8 C.F.R. § 287.3.

30. County of Riverside v. McLaughlin, in s. Ct. 1661 (1991).

31. Brower v. County of Inyo, 489 U.S. 593 (1989).

F<:>r Official Use Only

N ·2

Janlla.ry1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Lawcf Arrest, Search, atui Seizure for JmmigraiWn Officer.;

32. Graham v. Connor, 490 U.S. 386 (1989).

33. See BoRDER PATROL HANDllooK at 17-5 (Rev. 411/85).

34. See Tennessee v. Garner, 471 U.S. 1 (1985).

35. See BoRDER PATROL HANDBOOK at 17-5 and 24·3.

36. See note 3, supra.

37. Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436 (1966).

38. Berkerner v. McCarty, 468 U.S. 420 (1984); United States v. Alvarado Garcia, 781 F.2d 422 (5th Cit. 1986).

~~t~e: ~~:~~n~~,~i~' :~~~ ~~;;e~~:~~\:~; V~~2:~: ~:~e~~, 1:S~.¥;~~

(5th Cit. 1979) (requiring Miranda warnings).

Beckwith v, United States, 425 U.S. 341,346-347 (1976). 40.

41. Henry, 604 F.2d at 914.

42. Mala-Abunilk., 717 F.2d at 1279. See generally Mathis v. United States, 391 U.S. 1 (1968).

Cal'c ' 384 US 757 (1966)' United. States v. Wade, 388 U.S, 218

43. Schmerber v. 110m!a, . , ,

(1967); Gilbert v. California, 388 U.S. 263 (1967).

86 (1990)' Mi higan v Harvey 494 U.S. 344 (1990);

44 Minnickv.Mississippi, I11S.Ct.4 ,c.' TIliJJ" 469US 91 (1984)'

'. 479 US 523528-29 (1987)' Smith v, OIS, • • ,

Connecticutt v. Barrett, .., , d Ari 451 US 477 484-85

Oregon v. Bradshaw, 462 U.S. 1039, 1044 (1983); Edwar s v. izona, ..,

(1981).

45. Michigan v, Mosley, 423 U.S. 96, 104 (1975).

46. Amending 18 U.S,C. §§ 3041, 3141-3143, 3146-3152, 3568.

47. 18 U.S,C. § 3144, referencing 18 U,S.C. § 3142.

48. 18 U,S.C. § 3142(b).

49. 18 U.S.C. § 3142(c).

For Official Use Only

N -3

JanwuyJ993

Unit~ s~ a tes Department or Justice [mrrugration and Naturalization Service

M-69: TheLawq{Arrest, Search, and Seiaee for Immigrotion Officer;

50. 18 U.S.C. § 3144.

51. 18 U.S.C. § 3145.

52. United States v. Valenzuala-Bernal, 458 858 (1982).

53. Smith Y. Maryland, 442 U.S. 735, 739 (1979).

54. Smith, 442 U.S. at 740; United States v. Katz, 389 U.S. 347, 357 (1967).

55. United States v, Leon, 468 U.S. 325 (1984).

56. FED. R. ClUM. P. 41(c)(2); United States v. Rome, 809 F.2d665 (10th Cir. 1987).

57. Carroll v. United States 267 U S 132 16 '. .

512,514 (10th CiT. 1948), aird, 338 U.S. i60 ~1~~~~); Brinegar v. Untted States, 165 F.2d

58. See illinois v, Gates 462 US 213 (1983) (b d .

in Aguilar and Spinelli ~d reaf~ the total~ an f omng. the "two-pronged test" established cause determinations)' see also A uilg . tty 0 the CIrcumstances analysis for probable States, 393 U.S. 410 (1969). g ar v. Texas, 378 U.S. J08 (1964); Spinelli v. United

59. Gates, 462 U.S. at 236; United States v. Seybold, 726 F.2d 502, 503 (9th Cir, 1984).

60. United States v Estrada 733 F 2d 683 .

. , . , 685 (9th Cir.), cert. denied, 105 S. CI. 168 (1984).

61. United States v. Alexander 761 F 2d 1294 1300 (9th . .

747 F.2rl 537, 543 (9th Cir. 1984)' U 'ted S ' Cu. 1985); United States Y. Roberts, cert, denied, 451 U.S. 1018 (1981). m tales Y. Gagnon, 635 F.2d 766, 768 (10th CiL),

62. Michigan v. Clifford, 464 U.S. 287 (1984); Michigan v. Tyler, 436 U.S. 499 (1978).

63. Blackie'a House of Beef Inc v C till 659 '1

455 U.S. 940 (1982). See ako M~half v ~ S~dC1211 (D.C. Cir. 1981), cerro denied,

. om .0.,647 F.2d 96 (10th Cir. 1981).

64. International Molders' and Allied W k' .

(9~ Cir. 1986), on remand, 674 F. SUPP.O;9:rs(N~CaUI lli109n87)No. 164 v. Nelson, 799 F.2d ~47 5e1ZUre. . . The warrants do not authorize

65. Marshall v. Barlow's, Inc., 436 U.S. 307 (1978).

66. The leading case on factory surveys is INS v Del ad 46

Kotler Industries v. INS 586 F S . g 0, 6 U.S. 210 (1984); see also, Cir. 1981)' M d ' . upp. 72 (N.D. Ill. 1984); Babula v. INS, 665 F.2d 293 (3d

, en oza v. INS, 559 F. Supp. 842 (W.D. Tex. 1982).

For Official Use Only

N·4

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M·69: Tile Law of Arrest, Search, and Sei:v.uefor Immignuion Qlficers

67. Illinois Migrant Council v. Pilliod, 531 F. Supp. 1011, 1022-23 (N.D. Ill. 1982).

68. Marshall v, Barlow's, Inc., 436 U.S. 307, 320-21 (1978).

69. Barlow's, 436 U.S. at 320, citing Camara v. Municipal Court, 387 U.S. 523 (1967),

70. See In the Matter of Establishment Inspection of Gilbert & Bennett Manufacturing Co., 589 F.2d 1335 (7th Cir.), cerro denied, 444 U.S. 884 (1979).

71. Stoddard Lumber Co. v. Marshall, 627 F.2d 984 (9th Cir. 1980).

72. Donovan v, Wollaston Alloys, 695 F.2d 1 (1st Cir. 1983); Stoddard Lumber CO. V. Marshall, 627 F.2d 984 (9th Cir. 1980).

73. Guerra v. Sutton, 783 F.2d 1371, 1375 (9th Cir. 1986).

74. Chimel v. California, 395 U.S. 752,763 (1969); United States V. Chadwick, 433 U.S. 1 (1977).

75. United States v. Robinson, 414 U.S. 218 (1973).

76. Chimel, 395 U.S. at 763.

77. New York Y. Belton, 453 U.S. 454, 460 (1981).

78. Michigan Y. Long, 463 U.S. 1032 (1983).

79. Chimel, 395 U.S. at 763; Mapp v, Ohio, 367 U.S. 643 (1961); United States v. Jackson, 576 F.2d 749 (8th Cir.), cerro denied, 439 U.S. 858 (1978).

80. Maryland v. Buie, 494 U.S. 325, 334·334 (1990).

81. Agnello v, United States, 269 U.S. 20 (1925); James v. Louisiana, 382 U.S. 26 (1965); United States v. Anthon, 648 F.2d 669, 675-76 {10th Crr. 1981).

82. Schneckloth v .. Bustamonte, 412 U.S. 218, 226 (1973).

83. Schneckloth, 412 U.S. at 227; United States Y. Lopez, 777 F.2d 543,548 (10th Cir. 1985); United States v. Ritter, 752 F.2d 435 (91h Cir. 1985) (all holding consent to be voluntary). Compare LaDuke v, Nelson, 762 F.2d 1318, 1329 (9th CiT. 1985) (consent to search of migrant farm housing held not voluntary where rNSofficers failed to advise occupants of right to refuse consent; where occupants had inherent fear of uniformed officers and were of limited education and linguistic ability; and where searches occurred in early morning or late evening).

For Official Usc Only

N· S

JanUOl)'l99)

United States Department of Justlea Immigration and Naturalization Service

M'69: TheLawo/Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officm

84. Bumper v, North Carolina, 391 U.S. 543 (1968); LaDuke v, Nelson, 762 F.2d at 1329.

85. Commonwealth v, Angivoni, 417 N.E.2d 422 (Mass. 1981); LaDuke v; Nelson, 762 F.2d at 1329.

86. Higgins v, U.S., 209 F.2d 819, 820 (D.C. 'Cir. 1954); LaDuke v. Nelson, 762 F.2d at 1329.

87. United States v, Watson, 423 U.S. 411 (1976).

88. United States v, Baggatts, 646 F. Supp, 589, 591 (D.D.C. 1986).

89. United States v, Ritter, 752 F.2d 435 (9th Cir. 1985).

90. United States v, Matlock, 415 U.S. 164, 171 (1974).

91. Illinois v, Rodriguez, 497 U.S. 177 (1991).

92. Florida v. Jimeno, III S. Ct. 1801, 1805 (1991); Illinois v. Rodriguez, 497 U.S. at 183- 189; Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 501-502 (1983).

93. Jimeno, 111 S. Ct. at 1805-1806 (1991).

94. Warden v. Hayden, 387 U.S. 294 (1967).

95. United States v, Gomez, 652 F. Supp. 715, 7IB(S.D.N. Y 1987); United states v. Echegoyen, 799 F.2d 1271 (9th Cir. 1986); Welsh v, Wisconsin, 466 U.S. 740, 753 (1984) (no exigency Where underlying DWI was a non-criminal traffic offense and suspect was off the

road). .

96. Mincey v, Arizona, 437 U.S. 385, 392·93 (1978).

97. Warden v, Hayden, 387 U.S. 294 (1967)

98. Warden v, Hayden, 387 U.S. at 298-99.

99. United States v. Santana, 427 U.S. 38 (1976).

100. Santana, 427 U.S. 38: United States v. Varkonyi, 645 F.2d 453 (5th Cir. 1981).

101. Welsh v, Wisconsin, 466 U.S. 740 (1984) (no hot pursuit where police entered suspect's home minutes after a witness had observed suspect in an apparently intoxicated condition fleeing from the scene of an accident, a civil offense): United States v. Morgan, 743 F,2d 1158 (6111

Only

N -6

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M·69:

Vie Law 0/ Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officers

local ffee shop and assessed the situation, Cir. 1984) (no ho~ Pursfuitht Whehre,offff:r:remp~ing to~efendant's house).

waited for the arrival 0 e s en

102. Maryland v. Macon, 472 U.S. 463 (1985). .

U 'ted States 26'" US 57 59 (1924); Oliver v. United States, 466 U.S. 170

103. Hester v. ill , J •• ,

(1984).

. U 'ted States 390 US 234 (1968); United States v. Miguel, 340 F.2d 812 (2d

104. Hams v, m , ..

Cir.), cert, denied, 382 U.S. 859 (1965).

105. Bell v. Wolfish, 441 U.S. 520 (1979).

106. Hudson v, Palmer, 468 U.S. 517 (1984).

107. Block v. Rutherford, 468 U.S. 576 (1984).

108. 109. 110. lll.

Procunier v, Martinez, 416 U.S. 396 (1974). Wolffv. McDonnell, 418 U.S. 539 (1974).

Wolff, 418 U.S. at 576-577: Taylor v. Sterrett, 532 F.2d 462 (5thCir. 1976). Wolff, 418 U:S. 539 (1976).

112. Procunier, 416 U.S. at 413.

113. Procunier, 416 U.S. at 418--419.

Ham 476 F 2d 292 (lOth Cir.) cert. denied, 414 U.S. 872 (1973).

114. Daughtery v. s,. ,

115. Flores v, Meese, 681 F. Supp. 665 (C,D. Cal. 1988).

116. United Slates v, Ramsey, 431 U.S. 606, 621 (1977).

117. Ramsey, 431 U.S. at 616-619.

(1925)' Bo d v United States, 116 U.S. 616

11&. Carroll v. United States, 267 U.S. 132 ,y.

(1886),

119. Section 235 of the Act; 8 U.S.C. § 1225.

120. Ramsey, 431 U.S. at 616-619.

For Official Use Only

N ·7

JanWIt)' 1993

United States DepartJnent of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M·69: TbeLaw of'Arrest, Search, and SeiQ.ue for Immigration Q/Jicers

121. Uni~ States v. Duncan, 693 F.2d 971, stt (9th Cit. 1982), cert. denied, 461·U.S. 961 (1983); Uruted States v. Ajlouny, 629 F.2d 830, 834 (2d Cir. 1980)· cert. dented 449 U S ! 111 (1981~, citing, Ca~fornia Bankers Ass'n v. Shultz, 416 U.S. 21, 63 (1974) '(dicta th~

~ose en~erm~ and leaving the country may be examined as to their belongings and effects, all WIthout VIolating the fourth amendment").

122. United States v. Whiting, 781 F.2d 692, 696 (9th Cir. 1986).

123. Almeida-Sanchez v. United States, 413 U.S. 266 (1973)' United States v. Charleus 871

F.2d 265 (2d Cir. 1989). ". '

124. United States v: Montoya de Hernandez, 473 U.S. 531 (1985); United Stales v. Oyekan, 786 F.2d. 832 (8th err. 1986); United States v. Vega-Barvo, 729 F.2d 1341 (11th Cir. 1984) em. demed 469 U.S. 1088 (1984). '

125. United States v. Lincoln, 494 F.2d 833 (9th Cir. 1974).

g;;5)~niled States v, Rogers, 504 F.2d 1079 (5th Cir. 1974), cert. denied, 422 U:S. 1042

127. United States v: Alfonso, 759 F.2d 728, 734 (9th Cir. 1985).

128. United States v. Gaviria, 805 F.2d 1108, 1112-14 (2d Cir. 1986) (customs); United States v. Alf?nso, 759 ~.2d 728, ?J4-35 (9th Cir. 1985); United States v. Barbin, 743 F.2d 256,261 (5th Cir. 1984) (tire :md trailer tracks established border crossing); United States v. Jacobson, 64~ F.2d 990 (9th Cir .. 1981); United Slates v. Richards, 638 F.2d 765, 771.772 (5th Cir. 1981); United States v, Espencueta-Reyes, 631 F.2d 616, 619·620 (9th Cir. 1980); United States v, Bowman, 502 F.2d 1215, 1219 (5th Cir. 1974); Castillo-Garcia v. United States 424 F 2d 482

(9th Cir. 1970). ' . .

129. United States v. Alfonso, 759 P.2d 728, 734 (9th CiT; 1985).

130. Castillo-Garcia v. United States, 424 F.2d 482, 485 (9th Cir. 1970).

131. United States v. Driscoll, 632 F.2d 737, 739 (9th Cir. 1980).

132. United States v. Hill, 939 F.2d 93 (11th Cir, 1991).

133. United S~tes v, Ramsey, 431 U.S. 606, 620 (1977); United States v. Jackson, 825 F.2d 853,859 (5th Cu. 1987) (en bane); see also United States v. Montoya de Hernandez 473 U.S.

531,537-38 (1985). '

134. Carroll v; United States, 267 U.S. 132 (1925); Jackson, 825 F.2rl at 858.

For Official Use Only

N·8

January 1993

UnitedStates Department of Justice Immigration and Natura1ization Service

M·69: The Law of 'Arrest, Search, and Seizure for Immigration Officer:

135. Jackson; 825 F.2d at 860, 866 (holding Sierra Blanca checkpoint is not a "border equivalent checkpoint").

136. There are currently no permanent checkpoints judicially recognized as functional equivalents.

137. 0.1. § 287.30

138. United States v. Martinez-Fuerte, 428 U.S. 543 (1976); United States v. Gordo-Marin, 497 F. Supp. 432 (S.D. Fla. 1980), ajf'd, 659 F.2d 58 (5th Cit. 1981).

139. United States v. Ortiz, 422 U.S. 891 (1975).

140. United States v, Faulkner, 547 F.2<! 870 (5th Cir. 1977) (nervousness of the driver);' United States v. Reyna, 546 F.2<! 103 (5th Cir. 1977) (nervousness of passengers coupled with suspicious story of misplaced trunk key).

141. United States v. Kidd, 540 F.2d 210 (5th Cir. 1976) (per curiam).

142. Faulkner, 547 F.2d 870.

143. United States v, Gorthy, 550 F.2d 1051 (5th Cir.), cert. denied, 434 U.S. 834 (1977); United States v. Leal, 547 F.2d 1222 (5th Cir. 1977) (per curiam).

144. Martinez-Fuene, 428 U.S. at 556-560; see also Michigan Dept. of State Police v. Sitz, 444 U.S. 444 (1990).

145. BoRDER PATROL HANDBOOK, Chapter 9; Jasinski v, Adams, 781 F.2d 843 (11th Cit. 1986); see also citations at notes 33 and 35 supra.

146. 422·U.S. 873 (1975).

147. The pursuit of a vehicle does not in. and of itself constitute a seizure of the vehicle for fourth amendment purposes. California v, Hodari, 111 S.Ct. 1547 (1991) (chase of juvenile by officer did not constitute 'seizure' by officer); Broyer v. County ofInyo, 489 U.S. 593 (1989) (20 mile chase by police ears with flashing lights was not deemed to produce a seizure for fourth amendment purposes); Michigan v, Chesternut, 486 U.S. 567 (1988) (a brief acceleration to catch up with respondent followed by a short drive alongside him was not so intimidating that the respondent could reasonably believed that he was not free to disregard the police presence).

148. United States v, Franco-Munoz, 952 F.2d lOSS, 1057 (9th Cir. 1991) (vehicle stop supported by reasonable suspicion based on officers' experience with smugglers on particular highway, loaded appearance of vehicle, type of vehicle, driver's ~lure to acknowledge office:s, and fact that driver was Hispanic male); United States v. Lujan-Miranda, 535 F.2d 327 (5th Cir,

For Official Use Only

N·9

JIIIlWU)' 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: 1heLawofArresl,Search and Seimre for Immigranonqfficm

:;:; ~!~= ~ : ~i~h!69 ~.~d 1338 (5th.Cir. 1978) (stop ~m:d near checkpoint

976 F.2d 592,594-96 (9th Cir. 1~(h ~ ~:1)' B~ see United States v, Rodriguez,

to that in FranciJ-MUI/()z). 0 g mv a vehlcle stop based On profile similar

149. Compare Fr(l1lC()-MUlWZ 952 F 2d at 1051 .

United States v. Barnard, 553 F.2d 389 (5th C" l;t77)th. Rocffiguez, 976 F.2d at 595; see also (5th Cir. 1917). q: United States v 11". ,Untted States v. Payne, 555 F.2d 475 contact does not support reasonable :SU~lo~n~~ F.20 110 (5th Crr. 1911) (failure 10 make eye

150. B4l7U1Fd, 553 F.2d 389; Payne, 555 F.2d 475.

151. Compare FrancD-MUlWZ, 952 F.2d at 1051 with Rodriguez, 976 F.2d at 595-596.

152. United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411 (1981).

153. Correz, 449 U.S. 411.

154. Pennsylvania v Mimms, 434 U S 1"'"

(1985). . . . vu (1977); United States v. Hensley, 469 U.S. 221

155. See Schneckloth v, Bustamonte, 412 U.S. 218 (1973). ~~!·F~~OOS~~Vc~Y{~i.34 F.2d218 (9th cu, 1991); UnitedStatesv. MoraleS-Zamora, 157. United States v Brignoni Pon 422lr S 81

Cir. 1985). . - ce, .. 3 (1975); Nicaciov.lNS, 797 F.2d 700 (9th

158. Colorado v. Bertine, 428 U.S. 364 (1976); Illinois v. Lafayette, 462 U.S. 640 (1983).

159. South Dakota v. Opperman 428 U S 364 (1976) •. .

constitutes a well-defined exception to the . . (establishIng that the inventory search

--" e warrant requirement).

160. Opperman, 428 U.S. 364.

~~i:u~~~da 4~2 '{;~\:~8~~~:S:W); Colorado v, Bertine, 479 U.S. 367(1987); Illinois Slates v, Rabenberg: 766 F.2d 355 (8th ~ Vi9An~~, 784 F.2d 1431. (9th Crr. 1986); United Cir.) cert, denied, 469 U.S. 830 (1984). . 85), United Slates v, Griffin, 729 F.2d 475 (7th

162. Mincey v. Arizona, 437 U.S. 385, 390 (1978)

For Official Usc Only

N-IO

In.oWIIY 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: Tbe taw cf, Arrest, Search, and Seinlre for Immigration 0jJicer.s

163. United Slates v. Ross, 456 U.S. 798 (1982) (upholding search of paper bag containing drugs); Carroll v. United States, 267 U.S. 132, 158-59 (1925) (upholding search in car upholstery for contraband whiskey).

164. Carroll v. United States, 267 U.S. 132 (1925); California v. Acevedo, 111 S. Ct."1982 (1991) (ovenullng United States v. Chadwick, 433 U.S. 1 (1971), which involved the search of a double locked footlocker contained within the trunk of a ear).

165. California v. Acevedo, 111 S. Ct. 1982 (1991) (ovenuling Arkansas v. Sanders, 442 U.S. 753 (1979) and United States v . Chadwick, 433 U.S. 1 (1971).

166. Acevedo, III S. Ct. at 1988.

167. Florida v. Wells, 495 U.S. 1 (1990); United Slates v, Ross, 456 U.S. 798 (1982); United States v. Johns, 469 U.S. 478 (1985).

168. United States v. McGuire, 951 F.2d 310 (7th Cir.1992).

169. Acevedo, 111 S. Ct. at 1988; Ross, 456 U.S. 798.

170. Horton v. California, 110 S. Ct. 2301 (1990) (eliminating requirement that the evidence be discovered 'inadvertently' by the officer).

171. Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U.S. 443 (1971); Hester v. United States, 265 U.S. 51 (1924) (open fields doctrine); United Slates v. McMillon, 350 F. Supp, 593 (D.D.C. 1972); United States v. Fisch, 474 F.2d 1071 (9th CiT. 1973) ("plain hearing" case wherein officers rented connecting hotel room to suspects, listened.~t connecting door and overheard information respecting narcotics conspiracy); Texas v. Brown, 460 U.S. 730 (1983) (after making a routine stop at a driver's license checkpoint, officer saw in driver's hand an opaque party balloon and in the glove compartment plastic vials, loose white powder, and extra balloons; plain view doctrine applied).

172. United States v. Ventresca, 380 U.S. 102 (1965) (officers smelled fermenting mash from suspected dwelling); United States v. Johnston, 497 F.2d 397 (9th Cir, 1974) (odor from suitcase); United States v. Pierre, 932 F.2d.377 (5th Cir. 1991).

173. Compare Hernandez v . United Slates, 353 F.2d 634 (9th Cir. 1966) (disallowing squeezing), with United Slates v. Lovell, 849 F.2d 910 (5th Cir. 1988); United States v, Hahn, 849 F.2d 932 (5th Cir. 1988).

174. United States v. Lee, 214 U.S. 559 (1927) (Coast Guard used search light); On Lee v. United States, 343 U.S. 747 (1952) (use of bifocals, field glasses, or telescope 10 magnify an object not forbidden); Dow Chemical Co. v. United Stales, 416 U.S. 227 (1986) ($22,000 aerial

For Official Use Only

N-II

January 1993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: TheLawofAm:st, Search, and Seizure for/mmigralioll Officers

mapping camera to .vi~ commercial premises upheld); Florida v. Riley, 488 U.S. 445 (1989) (I1~li~oPre: ob~atlon mID defendant's residential greenhouse from 400 feet above ground fell WIthin plain vrew doctrine).

17~ ~ted States ": Kim, ~15 I.'. ~upp 1252 (D. Haw. 1976) (800 millimeter telescope with a mete~ opening to view inside suspect's apartment violated fourth amendment where enhanced to point could see what suspect was reading 114 mile away).

176. Coolidge v .. New H~pshlre, 403 U.S. 443 (1971); Taylor v, United States, 286 U.S. 1 (1932) (where !»lice; standing where they had a right to be, saw contraband in open view in a garage ?y ~ooking thrcugh a small opening, their wammtless entry to seize the contraband was unconstitutional; the mfonnation gained from the lawful view could have been used to obtain a search warrant).

177. Cupp v, Murphy, 412 U.S. 291 (1973).

178. Oliver v. United States, 466 U.S. 170 (1984)' Hester v United States 265 US 57

(1924). ' . , ..

179. United States v, Dunn, 480 U.S. 294 (1987).

180. Id.

181. Oliver v. United Stales, 466 U.S. 170 (1984).

182. Section 287(e) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1357(e).

183. Section 287(d) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1357(d).

184. ~nit~ States v. Jacobson, 466 U.S. 109 (1984); United States v. Place, 462 U.S. 696 (1983), United Slates v, Beale, 736 F.2d 1289 (9th Cir.), cert. denied, 496 U.S. 1072 (1984).

185. Horton v, Goose Cn:ek: Ind. School District, 690 F.2d 470 (5th Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 463 U.S. 1207 (1983); Um~ States v. Massac, 867 F.2d 174 (3d Cir. 1989); United States v:

Lovell, 849 F.2d 9~0 (5th Cir, 1988) (brief detention ofluggage in custody of third party carrier to ~mff for narcotics was not .a search fur fourth amendment purposes); United States v. G~tlerrez, 849 F.2d 940 (5th Cir, 1988). BUI see United States v, Cagle, 849 F.2d 924 (5th ~lr: 198~) (p~longed detention of defendant's suitcase constituted a seizure which exceeded limits of mvestigatory detention and could only be based upon probable cause).

186. United States v. Taylor, 934 F.2d 218 (9th Cir. 1991)' United States v: Morales-Zam

914 F.2d 200 (10th Cir. 1990). ' ora,

For Official Use Only

N-12

January 1993

United States Department or Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The Law of Arrest, Search, and Seizure for lmmigrtuion Qlftcers

187. United States v, Tartaglia, 864 F.2d 837 (D.C. Cir, 1989); United States v, Stone, 866 F.2d 359 (lOth Cit. 1989); United States v. Hardy, 855 F.,2d 359 (10th Cir. 1989); United States v. DiCesare, 765 F.2d 890 (9th Cir.), amended, 777 F.2d 543 (9th eir. 1985).

188. United States v. Place, 462 U.S. 696 (1983); United States v, Lovell, 849 F.2d 910 (5th Cir. 1988); United States v, Attard, 796 F.2d 257 (9th Cit. 1986); United States v, McCranie, 703 F.2d 1213 (10th Cir.), cert. denied, 464 U.S. 922 (1983) (airport); United States v, Goldstein, 635 F.2d 356 (5th Cir.), cert. denied, 452 U.S. 962 (1981) (luggage in custody of common carrier).

189. Horton, 690 F.2d at 481; Jones v, Latexo Schools, 499 F. Supp 223 (E.D. Tex. 1980). But see Doe v. Renfrow, 475 F. Supp. 1012 (N.D. Ind. 1979), aJl'd in part, 631 F.2d 91 (7th Cit. 1980), cert, denied, 451 U.S. 1022 (1982),

190. United States v. Thomas, 757 F.2d 1359 (2d Cir. 1985), cen. denied, 474 U.S. 819 (1986); accord, United States v. Dicesare, 765 F.2d 890 (9th Cir. 1985). Bur see United States v. Solis, 536 F.2d 880 (9th Cir. 1976) (canine sniff outside a mobile home in a public place where founded suspicion preceded use of dog held to be reasonable).

191. United Slates v. Erwin, 803 F.2d 1505 (9th Cir. 1986); United States v. Attardi, 796 F.2d 257 (9th Cir. 1986); United States v. McCranie, 703 F.2d 1213 (lOth Cir.), cert. denied,464 U.S. 922 (1983).

192. United States v, Massac, 867 F.2d 174 (3d Cir. 1989); Erwin, 803 F.2d 1505; McCranie, 703 F.2d 1213; Horton, 690 F.2d 470.

193. United States v. Katz, 389 U.S. 347 (1967); United States v. Goldstein, 635 F.2d 356 (5th Cir.), cert. denied, 452 U.S. 962 (1981); United States v. Bronstein, 521 F.2d 459 (2d Cir, 1975), cen. denied, 424 U.S. 918 (1976); see a/so United States v. Whitehead, 849 F.2d 849 (4th Cir. 1988) (finding that trains, like cars, have the same type of mobility and potential for flight from the jurisdiction justifying an exception to the warrant requirement); accord, United Slates v, Trayner, 701 F. Supp. 250 (D.D.C. 1988); United States v. Liberto, 660 F. Supp. 889 (D.D.C. 1987), ajf'd, 838 F.2d 571 (D.C. Cir. 1988).

194. See 8 C.F.R. § 287.4(a) for the list of INS officers authorized to issue subpoenas.

195. See v . City of Seattle, 387 U.S. 541, 544 (1967); Donovan v. Lone Steer, Inc., 464 U.S. 408, 415 (1984).

196. The Guidelines refer to regional commissioners. As these positions no longer. exist, operational units should contact the appropriate headquarters component for further direction.

197. Sections 245A(c)(5) and 2 lO(b) (6) of the Act.

For Official Use Only

N-D

JamJaJ:YI993

United States Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service

M-69: The l.aw cf Arrest, Search, and Sei?JlT(! for Immigration Officers

198. Section 274A(b)(5) of the Act.

199. 8 C.F.R. § 242.2(a).

200. 8 C.F.R. § 242.2(a)(3).

201. 8 C.F.R. § 242.2(a)(4).

202. Cf. United States v. Leon, 468 U.S. 897 (1984) (when officer acts in good faith belief that warrant was issued by magistrate but warrant was in fact defective, and action of officer is objectively reasonable, evidence seized may be admissible).

203. INS v, Lopez-Mendoza, 468 U.S. 1032 (1984).

204. Matter ofToro, 17 I&N Dec:. 340 (BIA !980).

205. Wong Sun v . United States,37! U.S. 471 (1963).

206. United States v, Leon, 468 U.S. 897 (1984).

207. 403 U.S. 388 (1971).

208. Harlow v, Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 800 (1982); Blitz v. Economou, 438 U.S. 478 (1978).

209. Harlow v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 800 (1982).

210. 51 Fed. Reg. 27021 (July 29, 1986).

211. 28 U.S.C. § 1679(b)(1).

212. 28 U.S.C. § 1346(b), 2680(b) (1982).

213. United States v. Gilman, 347 U.S. 507 (1954).

214. Pennington v. United States, 406 F. Supp, 850 (E.D.N. Y. 1976).

215. See 28 C.F.R. § 50.15 et seq.

216. 28 C.F.R. § 50. 15(a)(4) and (b).

217. 28 C.F.R. § 50. 15(a)(4)-(6).

218. 28 C.F.R. § 50. 15(a)(6).

219. 28 C.P.R. § 50.15(a)(3).

For Official Use Only

N -14

January 1993

'~'\ U. S. Covornrnen\ PriniingOllice: 2001 . ~78·532 (.4ot05)

Recommended Documents

Documents Similar To ICE M-69, "Law of Arrest" (January 1993)
Skip carousel

carousel previous carousel next

Annual ICE "Refresher" Training Courses for 287(g) officers

2012-08-trust2

ICE 287(g) Primary Source Documents (UPDATED 5/8/10)

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - A-Files (Nov. 2007)

ICE State Training Summary

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Detainee Restraint & Transport

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Authority to Detain

ICE Law Enforcement Service Center (LESC) Training Manual

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - A-Files (Jan. 2006)

ICE 287(g) - State & Local Jurisdictions Applying & Expressing Interest in the 287(g) Program

Maria de Jesus Ortiz-Mejia, A093 138 113 (BIA Mar. 7, 2013)

New ICE 287(g) MOAs (updated 5/8/10)

Lamin Manjang, A096 803 746 (BIA Oct. 23, 2013)

Order of Temporary Injunction - Texas v. United States

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Constitutional Provisions and Civil Rights

Enrique Soto-Garcia, A087 534 842 (BIA May 7, 2013)

ICE 287(g) Participant Workbook - Enforcement Operations

More From J Cox
Skip carousel

carousel previous carousel next

Louisiana v. Sarrabea (La. Sup. Ct. Oct. 15, 2013)

GED Testing Policies & Procedures Manual (2011)

Opinion Affirming PI of Day Laborer Provisions (9th Cir. Mar. 4, 2013)

VDS v. Arizona - Harboring Decision

Lozano v. Hazleton (3d Cir, July 26, 2013)

Alabama's Petition for Cert to the Supreme Court - HB56

Crane v. Napolitano (N.D. Tex. July 31, 2013) - Order Dismissing Case

Order, United States v. Arizona (D. Ariz. Sept. 18, 2012)

Villas at Parkside Partners v. Farmers Branch (5th Cir. 2013) (en banc)

DOJ Letter re AL's HB56 § 29 and § 5 of Voting Rights Act

Maximizing Information's Freedom

Cert. Petition, Hazleton v. Lozano (Oct. 25, 2013)

Lowcountry Immigration Coalition v. South Carolina (4th Cir. July 23, 2013)

Cert Petition, Farmers Branch, Tex. v. Villas at Parkside Partners (Oct. 21, 2013)

Alabama GED Policy Manual

EO 2012-06 Public Benefits Deferred Action Program

Alabama's Petition for Rehearing En Banc (11th Cir. Sept. 10, 2012)

HB658 as Passed by Senate Unofficial)

Alabama's Petition for Rehearing en banc re HB 56 §§ 13 & 27 (11th Cir.)

Senator Beason's Proposed Senate Floor Substitute to HB658 (as of 5/10/12)

SB28 - Beason special session immigration bill (as introduced)

Georgia's Petition for Rehearing En Banc (9-10-12)

Alabama's Motion to Vacate Injunction of HB56 § 8 Pending Appeal (5/24/12)

Alabama's Motion to Vacate Injunction of HB56 § 30 Pending Appeal (5/24/12)

HB20 - Hammon special session immigration bill (as introduced)

158 - Joint Stip Re Rental Ban

HICA v. Alabama - Supplemental Briefing Order (11th Cir. June 25, 2012)

Alabama's HB658, amending HB56

GLAHR v. Georgia - Supplemental Briefing Order (11th Cir. June 25, 2012)

Fremont - Opening Brief

Footer Menu Back To Top

About
About Scribd
Press
Our blog
Join our team!
Contact Us
Join today
Invite Friends
Gifts

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices
Publishers
Social Media

Copyright © 2017 Scribd Inc.
.
Browse Books
.
Mobile Site
.
Site Directory
.
Site Language:

English
中文
Español
العربية
Português
日本語
Deutsch
Français
Turkce
Русский язык
Tiếng việt
Język polski
Bahasa indonesia

Sign up to vote on this title Useful Not useful

Close Dialog

Are you sure?

This action might not be possible to undo. Are you sure you want to continue?
CANCEL OK
{{confirm_text}}
{{cancel_label}} {{confirm_label}} " data-delete_collection="

Also remove everything in this list from your library.
cancel delete list " data-delete_empty_collection="

Are you sure you want to delete this list?
cancel delete list " data-multiple_remove_from_library="
Everything you selected will also be removed from your lists.
cancel remove from Saved " data-remove_from_library="
This book will also be removed from all your lists.
cancel remove from Saved " data-change_library_state="

{{confirm_text}}
cancel ok " data-remove_from_collection="

Remove them from Saved? (They’ll also be removed from your other lists.)
cancel remove " data-error="

{{confirm_text}}
ok " data-audio_reading_progress="

You&#39;re currently on {{currently_on}}. However, it looks like you listened to {{listened_to}} on {{device_name}} {{time}}.
Jump {{jump_to}}?
No Yes " data-delete_review="

{{content_line_one}}
{{content_line_two}}
cancel Delete " data-notify_personalization="
We&#39;ve curated titles we think you&#39;ll love.
Explore now " class="confirmation_lightbox_templates">

Close Dialog

This title now requires a credit
Use one of your book credits to continue reading from where you left off, or restart the preview.
Restart preview

Loading
Footer Menu Back To Top

About
About Scribd
Press
Our blog
Join our team!
Contact Us
Join today
Invite Friends
Gifts

Support
Help / FAQ
Accessibility
Purchase help
AdChoices
Publishers

Legal
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
Social Media

Copyright © 2017 Scribd Inc.
.
Browse Books
.
Mobile Site
.
Site Directory
.
Site Language:

English
中文
Español
العربية
Português
日本語
Deutsch
Français
Turkce
Русский язык
Tiếng việt
Język polski
Bahasa indonesia

